U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/S. Zhang
6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just initial thoughts on the match.  It was a tougher one than maybe the scoreline might indicate.  How did you feel like you were able to play today?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think it was a very intense match.  I think the result, especially in the second set, doesn't match how tough it was for both of us.  I think she's just such an intense player, you know, very flat and with a lot of rhythm.
So, you know, I think we were both aggressive.  I'm happy that I played the match, of course that I win.  But I didn't play a lot of matches this summer, so I'm happy and, you know, not taking nothing for granted.  So it's a step forward.
Q. Not playing a lot of matches, I know you have been dealing with a wrist injury.  Are you completely over that or how is that holding up?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I feel much better.  I had to do a step back of the court a little bit during the summer to be able to, you know, make sure for US Open that, the Grand Slam, to be healthy.  So far we are happy that it's working.
Q. Simona Halep lost earlier today.  I'm wondering when the top seed, No. 1 player in the world, goes out like that, does that send something off in your mind as an opportunity for you looking down the draw?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't look that far.  I think is always -- it's always an option.  I mean, even if you're a first numbered seed doesn't mean, you know, you cannot lose.  Everybody takes for granted in this case that, you know, she's going to go very far and she has to play and face opponents that are maybe gonna play well against her.  So it's tricky.  You have a lot of pressure in that position.  And if you're not ready 100%, you're out.
Q. What has your preparation kind of been like since Cincinnati, since you were saying not a lot of matches?  Have things been good on the practice court in terms of how you're feeling, how you're hitting on the courts?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, from, like increasing.  I have put a lot of hours into the preparation.  So, yeah, I mean, no secret.  Been training a lot, been trying to be healthy at the same time, which is always tricky to balance that, and like other tournaments.
Q. Does it feel quieter this time kind of coming in?  It's New York, nothing's quiet, but in terms of the leadup for you, coming into this tournament?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I feel I'm trying to be realistic, not trying to set tough goals, even though I always expect myself to go out there and perform well.
But right now, I'm just thinking to take, you know, every day at a time, every practice at a time, especially the matches, and, you know, not be too looking forward.  Be really every day.
Q. Simona was saying, made a comment, she hasn't really played her best tennis in New York.  When asked why, she said really it's just the atmosphere.  She said "I'm a quiet person."  You know, the craziness of the city, hustle bustle, chaos of the venues doesn't bring out her best tennis.  Some people thrive and others do not take well to it.  How about yourself?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I really feel her way when she says that, because me, at the beginning, for the first four years, I didn't go through almost the first round.  I was always, you know, there, and I didn't really understand what was happening.
I think it's part of it, like she feels, maybe it's a little too, I don't know, the city, the people, or the tournament.  There is a little different than other tournaments, but I'm learning to handle that better because I really want to go far in the tournament.
Yeah, I understand that.  Some people don't like it.  And I feel like people love it or people don't like it.  You know, it's black or white a little bit.
Q. What do you do to handle that?  Is it as soon as you finish your match, are you trying to get out of here as quickly as possible?  What are some of the tools that you've learned?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, well, I try not to spend a lot of time outside.  There is a lot of people, there is a lot of noise.  I always try to be in calm places.  I'm happy to go to the park, but I don't do a lot of shopping.  I don't walk around the city, you know.  I feel like if I don't walk, people are going to walk over me (smiling).  It's like, Man, seriously.
Yeah, I do spend a lot of time in the hotel, in this tournament in particular.  But, yeah, that's my way.
Q. Earlier when you said you're coming into this tournament being realistic with your expectations, is that because of lack of matches or because of the injury?  Why do you feel like here that's the approach?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: A lot of things.  I think because I didn't play a lot of matches, I think because a little bit the injury.  I know this is the Grand Slam where I have played the best in the past, so I'm like, Listen, I'm going to go, train hard, I'm going to go every little step forward.
Every day you gain a little bit more confidence.  That's it.  I don't have any -- I try to not have a lot of expectations here, so I'm a little bit in the shadow.  I'm happy to be in the shadow.
Q. But I mean, if you're spending so much more time than you would normally spend in your hotel room in New York, I mean, at some point you run out of things to watch on Netflix.  What are doing to pass the time?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm with my team, I'm alone sometimes.  I do watch a lot of movies and TV shows.  I put music.  I don't know.  I just keep myself busy.  I watch some tennis, too, here and there.  I'm in front of the park, so when I go outside, I go to a calm place, not to Fifth Avenue and things like that.
I just feel it's quiet in my room, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT