WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. TSURENKO/G. Muguruza
2-6, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It must be tough to come back and you have not had a chance to get going.  It looked like a good fight out there but just lacking that match sharpness.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think it was a very ugly match, but I'm happy that I fight, even.  You know, the level wasn't very high, but at the end she managed to come back in the third set and play better and found a way to keep winning and win the match.
Q. How is the arm?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, I felt good.  I'm happy that I didn't feel pain.  Obviously I didn't have a lot of practices to try to recover, so I had to manage a little bit.
Well, I'm happy that I didn't felt pain.  I competed.  Didn't go my way.  I'm going to take that positive and keep training for US Open.
Q. At this point, though, are you at all maybe hesitating a little bit or kind of questioning your body?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think it's normal that I have, here and there, have some issues.  I haven't had a big injury since a while, so I'm happy to have little things here and there and to clean them, you know, and not get a very serious injury.
So, no, it's part of my job.  I try to not get frustrated or anxious or...
Q. When you say you're going to keep training for New York, will any of that be simulated match play?  Are you thinking about maybe playing another tournament, get the match play?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm not sure yet.  I'm not sure yet.  I have to think what I'm going to do.  I was expecting -- you always believe you're going to go far in the tournament, so once it's over you think, okay, what's my next step?
For sure keep getting ready.  I don't know if I'm going to compete or not, so I will see now.
Q. We're not used to seeing you in such bright colors, the new kit.  The shorts, good.  The top I'm a little less convinced about.  Is this new stuff for the US Open, or...
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, this was just for here and for San Jose and Montreal.  Well, one match with it and it's done.  Next to the US Open kit.  It's not too bad.
Q. With the experience that you've got, going into training for the US Open now, what do you think that winning the last two slams will give you?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: To believe that I don't have to be 100% ready or in the best moment of your life to win it.  I know that behind every Grand Slam there is, you know, crazy stories, I'm sure, for everybody, that you ended up winning and maybe you never thought it was going to happen, things like that.
So it makes me believe that so many things are possible.  Doesn't mean that it's going to happen.  Just experience to work hard and to never lose the, how you say, motivation to believe you can do it.
Q. There was a sort of motivational headline today, something like if you failed, great, go fail again, and that failures really give you the best opportunity to improve sometimes because they make you reflect.  Can you think of a time when that really was true and what you took away from a match, whether it's a Grand Slam or even a small event?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I guess it's true.  I mean, I also think that sometimes when you're in an ugly moment it's going to help you for the future, you know.  It's a little bit about experience.  It sounds so boring, but it is like that.
And what you said, it's a little bit more of when you lose a match and you try to analyze and it's going to give you more information to avoid that in the next time.
Q. What positives can you take out of how you played today?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Very little.
Q. Very little?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes.  But the positive is that I felt much better, that I competed, that even though my tennis was not in the right level -- I was controlling the match until she came back and played much better.  So I'm going to take that (smiling).
Q. So now that we know you're a real person, what will you do to kind of take care of yourself today?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Oh, today is going to be tough.  Obviously the goal now is to forget this match as quick as possible and start training and resting and balancing that.
I don't know.  Today is not the best day to answer that, but I will try to keep my mind busy.
Q. What's the first thing you're going to do when you get to New York that has got nothing to do with tennis?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know, really.  Probably, I don't know, go to Saks Fifth Avenue or something like that (smiling).  I don't know.  One of these things, gigantic malls.  Or just go to the Central Park, and right in front of the Central Park, maybe just go for a walk.  It's very nice there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT