AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2019
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/T. Bacsinszky   
7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Does it feel strange to finish so early?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah (smiling).  I got asked that in the court.  I guess today is a normal day, even if it's a night match.  What is not normal is to finish at 4.  There's no other sport that you play that late.  It was very awkward.   
 Q.  What was the hardest part of finishing that late, the recovery or the preparation for this match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It's pretty similar because I think I went back to sleep around 5, so it's very messed up.  You don't know what to do the next day because you wake up very late.  You're still tired from the match.  It messed up a little bit the normal circumstances of a day off of matches.   
I just deal with it the better I can.  Today I was happy.  I'm done, so I can rest and recover.   
 Q.  What time did you wake up?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: At 11, 11:30 more or less.  So not a lot of sleep.  But can't sleep longer than that.  It's weird for my body.  I was waking up a lot.   
I won.  I went through it.  So I hope it's not going to happen again that late (smiling).   
 Q.  During your pre-season, all the hard work that you put in, could you kind of provide a little bit of insight into if there was anything different you did, what that regime was like?  It seems like it's paying off in the early part of the season.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Hmm.  I, like everybody, did hard work.  I tried to stay a little bit more away of the expectation.  I don't know, last year I had a lot of expectation to keep up the good year that I had, to right away start the year in the same line.  I think that got me very anxious to play the same level.  At the end it got a little messy.   
I just work hard, trying to not think a lot about the result, not think a lot about, okay, how is it going to go.  Just more easy.  I think at some point it will pay off, better earlier than later.  That's it.  More freedom in my mind.   
 Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about this match and how you assess Timea's game coming back from a difficult period off the courts?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I didn't play her in a long time.  She has a very unique style of game, very smart, very talented.  We played I think four or five times already.  All of the matches were very difficult.   
I know I was going to have to fight a lot to get it.  So it count a lot, this one.   
 Q.  Everybody's body clock is a little different.  Do you feel more energetic at night or in the morning?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think in the morning.  I think I'm more a morning person.  You wake up, you do what you have to do, then relax a little bit.  I'm also ready, if it's not that case, I'm used to always have dealing, if it's in the morning, night or midday.   
 Q.  Did you have to change your off-day routine because of waking up as late as you did?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.   
 Q.  What did you not do?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I didn't play.  I woke up late.  I prioritized.  Rest a little bit, work with my physio, just get a little bit of distance, recover for today because I knew was going to be a battle.  I will not forget to play tennis in a few hours, so it was more just a little bit in recovery.   
 Q.  With the Hopman Cup and everything, playing with David, getting to spend that entire week with a legend, the way he works and plays, how much opportunity did you get to pick his brain?  What were some of the highlights of what maybe he was able to advise you or impart to you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I was very excited also to play Hopman Cup because it's a special event.  But just to share with David.  I spoke a lot with my team.  I was so excited.  I think he's such a nice guy.  He's a nice guy.  He likes sharing.  He's not quiet.  He's not a little like, you know...  He was very talkative.  I practiced twice with him.  It was such a difference of mindset of hard work that he has.   
He explain me a little bit his journey, his story.  He also went through a lot of changes when he was younger until now.  It was just very nice to have a voice of things that I wonder sometimes, Is that?  Yeah, I've been through that.  I know what it is.   
Yeah, it was great also with his team and with the mixed doubles.  We didn't win one match, but it was great experience.   
 Q.  Pliskova or Giorgi next.  Talk about those potential matchups.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think they both play very aggressive game.  I played them before.  It's going to be a tough match.  Also is a Grand Slam, everybody wants it a lot.  Yeah, pretty much just looking forward for that match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT