THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 5, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. VAN UYTVANCK/G. Muguruza   
5-7, 6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Is it more a thing of her playing out of her mind tennis that you feel maybe less regret because she seemed to be hitting winners when she wanted?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, I think she played big today.  She took a lot of risk, and it worked for her.  I also think that my level today was not where I wanted it to be.  That's also why she could develop that kind of level.   
But, yeah, is a little bit sad because I wanted to, you know, really go out there.  But I think she played great.  Think she played great.   
 Q.  What do wish you could have done better?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: You know, probably just have better shots or handling maybe better her shots.   
But grass is tough.  She has a very good game actually for this surface.  Yeah, was a little bit like that.   
 Q.  Do you feel you lost your emotional control towards the end?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  I just think it's a very tough match.  We are there running both of us a lot.  I think she was playing really good.  So it was a little bit tough for me, you know, to have an opponent that is having a great day, and the match is slipping out of your hand a little bit.   
 Q.  You said before the tournament it's different coming in as a defending champion.  Did that wear on your mind at all the last few days?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, it's always on your mind, of course.  But I wasn't thinking really I have to defend anything.  I was just thinking to go and win it again.  I changed a little bit the mindset.   
But, yeah, today didn't go my way, honestly.  That's it.   
 Q.  Fifth match on Court 2 for a defending champion.  Was that difficult?  Were you a bit surprised to be scheduled like that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: That's it.  I was ready to play.  That's it.  Nothing to say.   
 Q.  Nothing to say?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  There's nothing I can do.  I mean, that's what they decided.  I follow the schedule.  Of course, I wanted to play in bigger courts.  It's always my preference.   
But to say something now makes no sense.  It's just what it is.  That's it.  I played my match.  That's it.  It's a good court, but...  Of course, bigger courts are nicer.  But that's it.  It's just how the schedule works.   
The players are playing also on Centre Court deserves it.  So that's it.   
 Q.  Novak said earlier how it felt special for him walking down through the people.  Same for you, seeing you walking down that the pathway.  Did it feel different at all?  Different sort of pressure walking down towards Court 2?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, it's not different.  It's fine for me.  I played in this court lot of times.  I have no problem to walk through the people.  It's just because the court is there, that's it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT