MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. KASATKINA/G. Muguruza
6-2, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish, please.
Q. You made a lot of unforced errors.  Can you let us know what happened today.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I fought, that's true.  I fought throughout the whole game.  I think the first game tactically I should have played better.  That's why I lost it that way.  Then I started to improve a little bit.
But Kasatkina today played very well, returned very well.  She hasn't committed nearly any unforced errors.  She's very intelligent.  I think it's been quite an even match.
Q. Do you feel in Madrid you needed a match like today?  I'm talking about the connection you had with the people here.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I felt a complete difference concerning the people.  I think that I leave Madrid with a great feeling, three great matches, even though I lost today.  I think the people have enjoyed today's match.  Unfortunately it didn't fall my way this time.
It's true, I felt a big change from the last time that I played here.
Q. In a sport which is so complicated mentally, when you play a game like the sixth of the third set with so many breakpoints you managed to save, how difficult is it to maintain yourself physically?  Were you desperate at the end?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It was a key point.  You're not desperate.  You know it's an important game.  You know if you manage to turn it around you're going to be into the game and you're going to put pressure on her.
If she manages to win that point, she's going to take the lead.  I didn't want to be frustrated in any moment.  I just thought if I was able to win that point, I was going to be able to step into the match and maybe have a chance to win it.
Q. Do you think Kasatkina is going to be in the top 10 shortly?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I don't know.  I only see when she plays against me.  I don't see the other matches.  I think when she plays against me, she plays really well.  We had some great matches.  This year I know she had some great results, making it into the finals of Indian Wells.
To be in the top 10, you have to be consistent.  But for sure she has the talent for that.
Q. A match like today where you committed so many unforced errors, don't you think you should play less aggressive or is it not in your nature?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: When you're playing such a defensive player, yeah, sometimes you commit a lot of unforced errors.  But not because I wanted a winner on the second ball.  We have a long rally and at the end someone misses it.
I have to be loyal to my game, which is to be aggressive.  I also have to try to be smart, not to be too aggressive.  I like to find a balance, which I actually think I have.  On clay, I think you cannot play the same way as you play on grass.  You have to be aggressive.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. You must be really disappointed with the loss.  But you were fighting the whole week.  Do you think it still could launch Rome and the French Open, maybe that can help later?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I am disappointed, but in comparison with other years that I felt in Madrid, this year I'm very happy because I feel like I really gave everything I had over there.  I felt good.  It's just that Kasatkina played better today.
For sure, it's going to help me, those three matches I played, to go to Rome excited, feeling that I'm playing a great level.  And, yeah, French Open.
I'm leaving with a bittersweet but more sweet taste this year.
Q. She called her coach at 4-3.  Were you thinking about maybe also calling Sam at that moment or you didn't need to hear another voice?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I think I was in the right path.  I came back from 4-1.  I was 4-3.  When things are going well, you don't really want to disturb.  I had clear what I had to do.
No, I didn't feel like it was a moment to do it.  Yeah, I think I got it also at 4-1.  I think Sam came at 4-1, so I couldn't.  That was also something, I already used it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT