NATURE VALLEY CLASSIC
June 21, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. STRYCOVA/G. Muguruza   
6-2, 6-4   
REPLACENAME   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough loss, but Barbora is that kind of player.  Is it fair to say sometimes she can give you some issues on the grass?  Talk us through your thoughts on the match.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I thought it was very difficult match.  She did very well her thing today.  Obviously my level wasn't at its best.  But I think credit for her.  I think she played well.   
 Q.  Why do you think your level wasn't where it was, say, when you had your first round match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I don't know.  I think it wasn't as good as the first match.  I think she also didn't let me really get into the match, Barbora, so a mix of up thing.   
 Q.  Was there anything about your performance today that particularly worried you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, no, I just think it's a difficult match.  Barbora plays very good on grass.  I think her style of game suits very good the surface.  No, I wish I would play more matches, but nothing really worries me.  I just want to learn and next time I face her, I want to win.   
 Q.  Does this mean more practice on grass than you would have done had you gone further in this tournament?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, yeah, of course.  I'm going to practice and get ready for Wimbledon.  I think I played here three matches also with the doubles.  Yeah, I didn't feel bad on the grass court.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on going to Wimbledon and trying to defend your title?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Excited to go there, to be back in the same environment as last year.  That's it.  I'm not thinking really much further than that.   
 Q.  What are you going to do next exactly week?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I still exactly don't know yet, but most probably you head up to Wimbledon and you train near, I guess.  I don't know yet.   
 Q.  How do you enjoy these smaller tournaments before the majors?  Do you look at them as warming up?  Does it get you ready for the majors and getting used to playing on grass?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It is more comfortable to play in a smaller tournament because it's not so big.  There's not thousands of people walking and everything is close, everything is comfortable.  It's like a family tournament.  It's good, and then after it's also good to go and do all those big stadiums and play.  I think Birmingham is a great tournament to prepare.   
 Q.  Do you like it that you have the possibility with the interaction with the crowd, they're so close to you and there isn't that distance that you get in the majors?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think so.  I think people come here and can watch us from very close and I can hear the people.  When you're in a Grand Slam, they're sitting in the fifth (gesturing ) there and it's different.  Yeah, I think for the crowd, it's nicer, these kind of tournaments.   
 Q.  Are you superstitious at all?  Have you planned your whole Wimbledon, like where you're staying all these things similar, exactly to last year or new place, new rhythm?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I'm not superstitious.  I think it's not smart to be superstitious.  I'm not going to do anything very different.  I'm staying in the same place and things like that, but I'm not superstitious.  I don't have to do something special.  That's silly.   
 Q.  Just in terms of going to Wimbledon and practicing at Orangi, is it easy once everybody gets there to get practice matches?  Is that something you like to do or will it just be typical practice with you and Sam and your team?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm sure we will be both,   I'm sure I'm going to do personal things with my coach.  Of course to play points and sets or matches is also good.  It's really depends how you feel, if you feel good enough, you feel like you need to play points.  We have a lot of time now to prepare.  It's good.  In a way it's good.   
 Q.  Despite the loss today, were you pleased with Spain's performance yesterday in football?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yes, I think it was very important.  No, I didn't watch it fully the match, but it's good they're surviving still.   
 Q.  Not that you had much time, but what was doubles with Kasatkina like?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Good.  I had fun, even though yesterday was very tough loss because we had match point.  We're not used to play super tiebreak.  It's like heart attack after heart attack.  It's so difficult.  Our opponents play every week this kind of moments.  We have a tiebreak in singles, but it's not as fast.  I really enjoy it.  I think she's a very nice girl.  Let's see if we can play more in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT