QATAR TOTAL OPEN
March 4, 2021
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  G. MUGURUZA/M. Sakkari
 6-3, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Last night you had just your second three-set match of the season.  How difficult was it to prepare yourself mentally and physically to turn right around and come back out tonight?  It seemed like you had a much easier task against Maria.
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, I have to say that we work for these moments.  We train hard to be able to train hard the next day, as well.
 Yesterday it's true that we had a tough match and I had less than 24 hours to recover, but, you know, this is also what we try to work on.
 You know, now there is never really an easy match.  So you have to be prepared to have a tough match and then the next day be able to play another tough match.
 You know, happy that today I was a little bit more efficient in the important moments.  Yeah, I could close the match in two sets.
 Q. How challenging is it?  You have come out of playing the first major of the year in Melbourne, and now you're in the midst of the Doha/Dubai back-to-back weeks.  How challenging is that to be able to prepare for and to excel in?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   It is tough, because it's a two-tournament swing that they are big tournaments and they are back to back and there is no rest days in between.  Normally in a Grand Slam we have recovery days in between.  It's challenging, because you have to play many matches.  They are all difficult.
 Yeah, it is really tough, but it's a good sign, right?  If you are tired and you're feeling like, Wow, I'm playing so much matches, I feel that's the right feeling.
 Q. You mentioned in your answer there playing more efficiently tonight.  I'm curious, what does it mean when you're playing more efficient tennis?  What are the things you did well today that ultimately got you the victory?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, probably when I had the opportunity, I took it.  You know, I didn't make a mistake or, I don't know, I just went for the point and convert those breakpoints and could close the match when I had the moment for it.
 I think that's being efficient.  Sometimes you try your best and it doesn't go your way.  But today I felt like everything was going well.
 Q. You have talked about it earlier in the week, how important your movement has been to you.  What does moving as well as you have allow you to do with the rest of your game?  You seem to be so good in the outer thirds of the court this week.  Is that something you've noticed, as well?
 GARBINE MUGURUZA:   I mean, we have been working on that for a long time, you know, like everybody.  But especially with my game, you know, try to be aggressive, try to be very fit.
 I think when you're fit, then your body is prepared to play the way you want.  Doesn't matter if you want to be aggressive, if you want to stay back, if you want to run, right, doesn't matter.  But feeling good physically allows you to choose after how you want to play.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT