ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/L. Tsurenko   
2-0 [Ret.]   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  It's never a good way to win a match.  Were you aware that she had a problem at the start or did it just happen in that game?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I mean, I think it happened in the second game.  I saw her hitting a shot and that didn't look very well, and so from that moment, I think she didn't feel good.   
So is not beautiful.  I know how it feels.  I had few retirements at the beginning of the year.  Is very tough, especially here, for sure, fourth round of French Open.   
But that's it.  I don't know.   
 Q.  I suppose it's not a very good gauge on how your game is right now, but up to this point, how satisfied have you been with this Roland Garros?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I mean, I'm very satisfied, because, you know, I feel it's a tournament that I love.  I feel I had good matches.  Well, today, not a match, kind of, but -- so yeah, I played good matches, tough opponents.   
I'm excited I'm still in the draw and I still have more matches to come if everything goes well.   
 Q.  You're playing really well right now.  Could it be an advantage to you that you have not had to play too long today?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Advantage?  Well, I guess, yes.  But because it's less tiredness for the body.  That's it.   
 Q.  Obviously you were set to meet either Serena or Maria.  You're going to meet Maria.  Your thoughts on Serena's withdrawal, first, and your thoughts on the matchup?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It caught me completely by surprise that she withdraw.  I guess she has her reasons.  It was going to be a very interesting match, for sure.   
I have good quarterfinals.  I didn't have a preference.  I remember we played a quarterfinals, like, four or five years ago against Maria, so it's good to be back there.   
 Q.  You are playing top-level sport with lots of pressure.  Everyone focusing on you.  Big Grand Slam.  How do you make sure that you can continue to enjoy your tennis with the pressure that goes alongside it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: You know, it's difficult when you're there to think -- I mean, when you go out there, you're not thinking, Oh, I'm going to have fun.  I'm so concentrated on what I'm going to do, how I'm going to win, and stuff like that.   
I don't know, I guess, when you shake hand and you won, that's a happy moment.  Yeah, so far I'm pretty happy with how the tournament is going.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  Can you tell us in Spanish what your day was like?  Because they changed courts twice.  And then there was a risk of rain.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, as I saw that I was going to be the last, I thought, well, what can I do?  That's the way it goes.   
I was hoping that the boys wouldn't go to the fifth set, but if you start wishing, it won't happen.   
In the end, I was told that I was going on Court No. 1, and I thought, you know, why am I changing?  And I waited so long that after, there was a walkover.   
 Q.  You said that you liked to eat croissants.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I already ate one.  Even if the match, we didn't really play it, it's a shame, but that's the way it happened.   
 Q.  And now you have Maria Sharapova.  Both of you are champions in Grand Slams.  So do you think it's going to be a good match?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: She's played very good matches.  I haven't played against her for a while.  She's in quarterfinals, and I'm really looking forward to playing her.   
 Q.  Since Sharapova hasn't been playing for quite a while, do you consider yourself to be a favorite for this match?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Favorite?  Not really.  Because I think it's a match that is going to be very interesting.  The quarterfinals are going to be very good.   
I saw her match against Pliskova the other day, and she played extraordinarily good.  I'm just going to play her, and that's it.   
 Q.  You have played just 10 minutes.  Maria didn't even play.  So what have you thought about Serena's walkover and the way you have both made it to quarterfinals?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know why she withdraw, and I must say that I'm very surprised.   
But of course it's much better to reach quarterfinals, having played all your matches.   
But this happens.  I had to walk over a couple of times earlier this year.  And, okay, I just take it the way it comes.   
 Q.  Where do you think you can tickle Maria Sharapova?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: She's very solid and aggressive.  I'm going to try and play my best tennis, and I think that we both have the same type of aggressive game.  So what I have to do is be on top of things and start first.   
 Q.  You're talking about face to face, but the face to face that you mentioned was very different.  As a Grand Slam champion, when you enter the court, you have a different mindset.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, it's true that this was a long time ago and a lot of things have changed.  I think that what I will do when I walk on the court, I'll have the same spirit but with different options to win.  Yeah, -- things have changed a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT