ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/S. Stosur   
6-0, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You won here and you won at Wimbledon.  Is there any special preparation you need to do mentally coming in to play these different kind of surfaces at the start of the clay court season, particularly here at the French and again when you move on to grass?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Personally, I don't do a special preparation.  Maybe you just think that it's going to be a long tournament, try to take it slowly, try to prepare good, but I don't feel I do something really different from here than from Rome or Madrid.   
Of course on the paper it's a Grand Slam, but, yeah, not really.   
 Q.  Surfaces...  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, well, as a surface, it's different, points are longer, you have to prepare a lot physically to get ready for that.   
I think that would be the difference, more physically and maybe some tactics, because the surface is a little bit slower.   
But, yeah, that would be.   
 Q.  I have taken a few minutes to look at the reaction to your win from people in the media and tennis fans.  Everyone is impressed by the way you are playing, and a lot of people are saying that you are now the favorite to win Roland Garros.  Do you believe you can win here at Roland Garros?  If so, why?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I guess they say that because I did a good match.  It happens like this.  It's the normal thing.   
But I believe I can hold a trophy not only here; I believe I can do it in every tournament I play.  Of course here it's so many matches.  It's a very long tournament.   
But I'm pleased with my performance today.  I think it was never easy match against Grand Slam champion; she did a final here.  I'm pleased because I felt in control in the match.   
 Q.  Did you know you were going to feel this way when you got here?  Did you feel good warming up, you know, before you started the tournament?  Or is it something that just happens, you click right away when you get into the matches?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't think nothing is a coincidence.  I mean, me working hard, playing tough matches, and knowing that eventually the good ones were going to come, trying to believe that.   
Of course you don't expect to play very good in tough matches in a Grand Slam, but I felt good today on the court.  Of course I'm going to take it, you know.  I'm happy just thinking about my next round, and that's it.   
 Q.  When you have won Grand Slams as you have done in the past, as a player, does that add something extra to your game either in terms of confidence or what you take onto the court during the tournament?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I mean, yeah, once you have won Grand Slams, I mean, you have to prove that you can do it.  It's just the proof of it.   
But from that, no, I think a lot of players have a lot of chances.  That's something that's not going to help you put the forehand down the line inside.  Of course mentally you know you can do it and that gives you more belief.   
 Q.  Can you talk to us a little bit about your training, your off-court training?  I was talking to your coach.  I know you work really hard.  The extent of how much do you do and how is it helping you?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: My coach or the trainings?   
 Q.  I was talking to the coach about it, but, yeah, the physios and all that stuff and all the workouts you do.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm sure I work hard, like everybody.  I mean, I don't think I'm working harder, than...  But in my opinion I'm doing every day very conscious work.  Also recovery.  I'm trying to recover very well after every training and every match, and I think my body is reacting good.   
So, yeah, tomorrow I have a day off.  I'm going to train.  I'm going to train thinking about my next opponent.  There is not really a secret.  It's just training hard (smiling).   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  You always said that you like the center courts, the large courts, but could you play better tennis than you have?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, I could.  Yes.  It was a good match.  I like playing in Philippe Chatrier, because it's the court which is probably the most important one in my career.  I played well.  I knew how to play facing her tactics, because she has a mix and it was important to control from the first ball.   
 Q.  Do you think you could repeat 2016?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'll see what happens with Tsurenko, my next opponent.   
The week has been positive, but I'm not trying to think too much ahead.  And now I'm going to think about my match against Tsurenko.   
 Q.  You have been finalist here.  Are you surprised in the way you won this match in one hour and two minutes?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, I was surprised in a way, because I knew it was going to be a battle.  The last match, three sets, I'm very happy this time it was not as dramatic as the previous one.  She plays well.  Maybe it wasn't her best day.  But I'm happy.   
 Q.  You have a very aggressive tennis.  Obviously with a lot of winners.  But obviously that leads to a lot of unforced errors.  I don't know if you looked at the statistics.  Have you had more unforced errors in this case?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm aggressive.  It's true I take risks.  It's true that sometimes you can be, with one centimeter, can be outside the court, but I believe she made a few more unforced errors.  And I played okay knowing what to do, and it went well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT