ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/S. Kuznetsova   
7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  It was tough conditions out there today.  How did you find it out there?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Tough, because it was very heavy.  Was raining.  Yeah, was not the best.  You'd rather play sunny and beautiful.   
But I'm happy.  Was a very difficult first round.  I think Svetlana is an expert in clay and here, and I'm happy because it's going to help me a lot, I think, this match.   
 Q.  What is it about Sveta's game that poses that kind of a challenge?  What do you think that's going to give you going forward?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think she plays very well tennis, in general.  She has a good technique, good vision of the game.  She's very experienced.  We played so many times, and it's always very difficult.   
So, yeah, it's good to have this match in the pocket.   
 Q.  It seems that you have a very strong affinity with Roland Garros.  You won it two years ago, and last year you were very disappointed to lose in the last 16.  What will it take for you to have a good run here this year?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, you have to put together so many things to be able to, you know, win a tournament like this.  But for now I'm just concentrating these first rounds that are very difficult, like today, and I'll go from there.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your form and fitness coming into Roland Garros on the state of your game right now?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: The fitness?   
 Q.  And your form, as well.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm feeling pretty good.  I mean, I have been training hard, and I didn't play a lot of matches.  So when you don't play a lot of matches, at least you have the time to practice and put things together.   
I think I lost matches that were tight and that I felt in control.  I have another chance here, the last tournament in clay, to do well.   
 Q.  Can you just give an insight -- obviously you're used to playing matches one after the other in a tournament and going deep.  A slam is a different mindset, with the weather, as well.  You must be relieved to get through today.  Can you give an insight as to how it's very different for you as a player theoretically a day off before each round?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It is a different mindset.  Of course it's a relief, every match, you know, when you go through because they are not easy, because as a Grand Slam, you have a lot of expectation.   
No, I mean, I like the fact that you have one day in between.  I have always liked it.  Sometimes, you know, it takes two weeks for the tournament, but I manage, I think, pretty good.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  This is not a usual first round to play against Sveta in Roland Garros.  How did you play this match which would rather be a second-week match?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, it is, sort to speak, second-week match.  But this is going to reinforce me.  It was a very good first round, and the fact that I won, although it was a very difficult match, it was a match against an expert.  The last matches I have played, the results were difficult.   
And I think that I feel very encouraged by this kind of a match.   
 Q.  You said that the last few matches were difficult.  You managed to dominate and take command of the situation.  How was the match?  How did you feel as far as your tennis and your shots are concerned?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, yes, the last matches I lost, and the results were very tight.  I know that sometimes I'm going to be more lucky than others, and that's what I was thinking this time.  I know that there was a key point where I turned the situation around, and the first set gave me more confidence.  And I think the match today was a good one.   
 Q.  Here in Paris there is often rain, but do you get used to playing this kind of matches with interruptions and what we see every year?  What do you feel, tournaments as important as the French Open doesn't have a roof on court?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, well, I knew the day was not a -- it was very gray, and I knew that there would be a delay, and obviously the conditions change.  But for both, for your opponent, as well.   
And it's difficult, because sometimes it's raining, and there's no light, either.  But I think you have to adjust.   
 Q.  Well, the second-round match is going to be very difficult, because you played against a very big champion, and now you're going to play against a young one.  Do you know her?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, I don't know her.  I'm going to look her up, but I don't know her.  Obviously the match is going to be different, but that doesn't mean it's going to be easier, because it's a second round, she's French, and I know that people here are behind the French players.   
 Q.  When you go to locker rooms, you speak to some, and what do you do to maintain yourself connected?  What do you do concretely?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, it's a difficult moment, because they stop your match, but it's still on.  So as it was a long interruption, what I managed to do was have something to eat.  You have to be focused.  You have to wait, and you have to speak to Sam, to my physical trainer, but we just have to wait, like anybody.   
 Q.  You're a double champion of a Grand Slam.  You have reached the top.  And you get to tournaments of this level.  There's not only what you have on court but what is around you.  Do you enjoy the glamour part, getting dressed up for all these receptions?  Because obviously your results on the court take you elsewhere.  And do you enjoy it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes.  Because I try and find, manage for this not to affect me on my daily life.  I think these are unique opportunities, and I enjoy them.  Yes, I have fun.  I'm lucky to be a good player, and obviously it gives me opportunities that would be difficult otherwise.  It's a very unique moment.  Or do a photo shoot, something like that.   
I never forget that what I do is play tennis, and that's what's important.  But I like it to change, because it's a recess from training.   
 Q.  It's the first time you won 7-0 tiebreak.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, tiebreaks are always difficult, and I played a good tiebreak this time.  Sometime I think it's really worth it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT