MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/D. Vekic   
2-6, 6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  In this match, especially during the first set and first half of the second set, was there a thought going through your mind, Oh, my God, second round again in Madrid?  And what was it that you felt turned the match in your favor and made you really dig deep in the second half of the match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  Well, I felt that she was playing very good.  I didn't feel like, oh, second round or something.  Because I know I can turn things around if I -- you know, I want to believe that.  So I just stayed composed.   
She was playing great.  I mean, yeah, great shots, great serve, defending.   
I was giving few points here and there but, overall, she deserved the first set.   
And then, you know, I just felt all the time I was very close but didn't take the lead.  So in the second set I'm like, Okay, I'm going to just, you know, keep doing it and eventually is going to turn things around.  And it happened.   
Then that gave me a lot of, you know, confidence to go to the third set and escape.   
 Q.  When you're in that situation and, you know, you feel like maybe the game is not right there, did you feel like it was more about execution, that your execution was off, or the decision making or tactics?  What did you think was working well that you just had to stick to, if that makes sense?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think she was -- my good shots she was handling pretty good and coming with even better shots.  So, you know, I try to be aggressive before her.  And, you know, be patient.   
Because when you have somebody that is playing good and, you know, you are doing your best just, you know, be patient until the moment will come and then you're gonna go for it.   
And that's what I did.   
 Q.  Next match against Daria Kasatkina, can you talk about that match?  Obviously, you guys have already played this year.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  I mean, we have two matches  were very difficult and match point for both of us and quite tricky.   
And she's having, I think, breakthrough this year, more than previous years.  And it's exciting to play her.  I think it's a good matchup.  And, yeah, I'm excited for that.   
 Q.  Going on after the second round, how does it feel to be finally in the Last 16?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It feels good because, as you know, it's my first time.  And, you know, always tricky.  But I found the way today to win.   
And I was thinking, you know, it was motivation for me, extra motivation to go there and never have a negative thought and to use the opportunity to be in second round.  Sorry, third round.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish, please.   
 Q.  After such a tough match as tonight, what is the thing that satisfies you the most of tonight's match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: You know, just not letting myself down.  Not being negative.  Because in front of me I had a player, a top 10 player, that she was playing really well.  Everything was working out for her.  And I'm proud that I was able to be calm, to go for my opportunities in the second set and in the third set.  As I said, I managed to escape and turn things on my side.   
 Q.  Finally, you made it to the third round here in Madrid.  How do you feel?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yeah, you know, the previous year I wasn't able to make it to the Round of 16, so it has been an extra motivation.  Here I had the opportunity today to go over that barrier.  So, that's why I've been fighting till the very last moment.   
And I think today's match has been really good.  Both playing really quite well, long rallies, shots.  A bit of everything.  I think it's a very interesting match to watch.  I think it's overall a very good match.   
 Q.  Any moment of the match when you lost first set, you also had the help of your coach.  Did you see yourself out of the match, out of the tournament?  Did you at any moment think you couldn't win the match?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, no, I didn't think about it.   
I thought if I could play the match all the way I was playing, it was a very long match and I could turn things around.   
I wanted to think that if I continued finding opportunities, I would be able to turn the match around.  And thanks to that, I stayed on court and I managed to win the match.   
I stayed positive throughout the match.   
 Q.  Talking about Spanish players, how important do you think Carla and you managed to make it to the third round and that people can see some Spanish players, feminine players play here?  Do you think it's important?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yeah, it's really good Carla is also playing well.   
I think it's very positive for the tournament and the people two feminine Spanish players doing really well at home.   
Carla likes this tournament.  I enjoy it.  And I think it's something positive for both of us and for the Spanish feminine tennis.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT