AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How worried are you that you sort of had a rough start to the season?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Is true, I would like to have played more matches.  But you never really know how is going to start the year.  I only played two matches, but I felt that my tennis was good.  Maybe my fitness was a little bit, you know, there.
I don't know.  I think sometimes you don't need that many matches.  With my experience, sometimes you play very good, and you don't need 25 tournaments before, sometimes you need it, so...
So far, I am okay.
Q. How is your fitness now?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, it's better.  I'm training every day.  I'm doing everything I can to be full recover.  Yeah, hopefully I'm pain-free and everything-free once the tournament starts.
Q. Do you feel 100% right now?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I wish to be more.  Well, you always want to be perfect before a Grand Slam, but you're never perfect.
But I feel I'm much better every day.
Q. Is it mobility or pain?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, it's just in Brisbane I had a very tough condition and match.  I (indiscernible) a little bit those issues.  It takes a little bit of time, healing, natural process.  It doesn't go in three days.  But it's getting better and better.
Q. Were you surprised by how you reacted physically in Brisbane and Sydney or was it something that was happening in the off-season, as well?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I was very surprised.  I already said that before.  I'm not a person that gets a lot of cramps.  That day I was fully cramp.  I couldn't move.  Was a little bit shock.
But it's very bad when you're cramped.  It's very bad.
Q. Do you think you'd be fit enough if it wasn't a Grand Slam or would you still be taking a break?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Excuse me?
Q. Do you think if it wasn't a Grand Slam, you would be sitting on the sidelines?  Do you feel fully ready to go?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm trying to be fully ready to go.  Honestly, I never feel I'm super perfect in any tournament.  It's true, when you have the Grand Slam, you even want to feel more ready.  That's what I'm going through.  I'm trying to every day improve, try to recover.  I know I'm playing on Tuesday, so we see.
Q. I'm sure you watched the TV news footage last night, maybe seen the newspapers this morning.  Billie Jean King was sitting there yesterday, and she said that if she was still playing, she wouldn't play on Margaret Court Arena because of everything that Margaret has been saying.  Are you comfortable playing on that arena?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I will play whatever they put me, which court.  And I don't even thought about it.  So I'm not even thinking.  If I play on Margaret Court, the last thing I'm going to think is this.  That's it.
Q. Has it been discussed at all, the issue, at players meetings?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No.  I didn't talk about it.  I didn't, no.  With me, no, for sure.
Q. As you go into this tournament, given everything physical and also it sounds like you're pretty confident in your tennis, what is the level of excitement going into this tournament?  Are you nervous?  Are you excited to attack it?  Are you frustrated?  What's the feeling?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: The feeling is excited because, you know, Grand Slams are the most important tournaments.  This is the Happy Slam, for a reason.  Of course, I will be happier if I would come here playing more matches.  But that's not going to put me down at all.
I'm looking forward to start.  I have good memories from last year.  In general, I always have good memories from Australian Open.
That's what I'm thinking.
Q. On the WTA circuit, you're able to have on-court coaching, but not at the slams.  Which do you prefer?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Honestly, depends on the moment.  It doesn't really matter.  I don't know.  I think it's good when you have the on-court coaching.  I didn't even thought about that.  Maybe it's just better to keep it this way.
It's just different.  Grand Slams, there is a difference.  It makes it maybe more normal because the on-court coaching is something that is only on the women's side.
I don't know.
Q. Just looking at your results, you've had two Grand Slam victories, not so many other titles compared to your Grand Slams.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.
Q. It seems to work well for you maybe to be out there on your own.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Lonely (smiling)?
I don't know.  I don't really think about it.  Sometimes you're happy to have the help, and sometimes you're good that you don't have nobody.  It's better, I guess, if you always have the chance to at least have the help.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT