MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/Peng Shuai   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  It looked at times you really had to work for the win.  Is that how you felt today?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yeah.  I felt like the first set, it was really even.  I was leading, but I felt like if I miss few shots, it can turn easily around.  I think Peng was playing really solid tennis today.   
 Q.  For some reason in recent times here you haven't had quite the results you'd hoped for.  What is it that's challenging for you about here?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: You know, I'm taking a lot less expectation, you know, this time.  I think every year I put a lot of pressure on myself to do well here, so I want to change that, just go out there and use the crowd, you know, I mean, I'm in Madrid.  I love to be here, in a positive way, not in a pressure way.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  I wanted to know, were you very nervous when you were playing today?  How did you manage to control your nerves and finally be able to beat your opponent?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, at the beginning I started not very nervous actually.  I knew that against her there were going to be some good rallies.  The first game was very long.  We had a lot of rallies.  The nerves went away.   
Playing long points help you.  I think I played quite calmly, this time.   
 Q.  How difficult or different is it to play a player that plays with a two-handed backhand and forehand?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think it's different.  Normally we're not used to see players like this, that they play two-handed forehand and backhand.  Normally they strike the ball very flat.  Both of her shots are very similar.  Either backhand or forehand is like the same.   
I think it's good to face opponents like this because it's different.   
 Q.  People always like to see the final rounds.  Talking a little bit about the first round, how important is the first round for you?  You said in English your mindset is different here so you don't have that much pressure.  How do you feel here?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think that the first rounds, they are not the only nice ones.  I think they are the most important, especially for me.  At this tournament, I haven't really made it many times to the second round.   
The first round is very important.  The first rounds are always difficult matches.  Here we play against people that play really well.  After the start, everything starts to be better, everyone plays really well, everyone is used to it.   
People like to see the further rounds, but first rounds are really important.  Especially in matches today, you play against Peng, she's been playing a lot of years, is a very tough opponent.  Actually, every opponent is tough.   
If you lose in the first round, you are out.  This has happened to me, especially when I play players like today.  If you lose, you're out.  You have to give 100% from the first round till the end.   
 Q.  A minute ago we were speaking with Carla.  She knows you quite well.  We asked her if she thought if you were one of the favorites of the tournament.  She said that Garbine Muguruza is always a favorite in these kind of tournaments.  Do you see yourself as a favorite player to win this tournament, as last year you didn't do so well in this tournament?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Historically I don't know if here I am the favorite.  It's true that it has happened to me many times.  Look, this tournament is really good, then I manage to win the tournament.  It happens that in some tournaments, I feel well.  It has happened on grass, it has happened on hard court.  Sometimes I don't know what's happening, I go there, I just win.  I think I have the capacity to play good tennis and be able to win every match.   
But talking about this tournament, I don't want to think so far ahead.  I just want to be happy that today I managed to play a great match, I managed to make it through to the next round.  Now I will have to prepare for the next round.   
 Q.  Recently you won in Monterrey, which is in altitude.  How do you see the altitude here in Madrid?  Does it suit your game?  Do you prefer to play at sea level or here with altitude?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I try to adapt myself.  It's true that in Monterrey there was some altitude.  This year I am feeling better in Madrid.  Since the first day I started to play, I said to myself, Hey, I'm playing well.  It's a little bit different to other years when I didn't adapt myself.  I think this time I'm feeling better.  Maybe I managed to adapt better or perhaps in Monterrey I managed to adapt and I played better.   
 Q.  You were talking about how important first rounds are.  How difficult has it been for you in previous years in Madrid because you were not able to make it in the next round?  To be able to win in this first round, does it relieve you a little bit?  Do you have less pressure?  How are you going to face the second round?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, I don't really think it does.  I want to go out very much like today, try to give my 100%.  Just about that, I don't think anything else.  Just because when I've been here I haven't won two matches, I don't think about the stats.  I just want to play like I played today, like I know I can play, and that's what I'm going to do.   
 Q.  We still don't know your next opponent.  What do you think about Georgina and Vekic?  You played in the Fed Cup with her.  What is your relationship with her?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think I played with her a long time ago.  I lost against her, if I remember right.  Well, she's a tough opponent.   
The other one, Georgina, I know her since we were juniors.  I played against her in the Fed Cup.  I think that she has a very strong serve, that she's fighting.  I think she's going to be a tough opponent.  Either of them are going to be tough.   
 Q.  Talking about the favorites.  Were you surprised by Venus' defeat yesterday?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, it didn't surprise me at all.  Each week these things happen.  I saw a little bit of the match yesterday because I was interested.  That just proves that any player that doesn't give 100% or that is not at her best level, they're going to lose.  The other players are playing very well.  You always have to give 100%.  You cannot lower it down.  The level is very high at these kind of tournaments.   
In any tournament, anyone can win.  There's always surprises.  There's always a different person who wins the title.  So no, I'm not surprised at all.   
 Q.  You said you played a really solid match today.  What can you improve for the next round?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: There were moments where I think I missed a couple of shots that I shouldn't have missed.  That made the match a little bit complicated for me.  At the beginning of the second set, I made a couple of unforced errors.  I have to watch out for those errors.  I cannot allow myself those kind of mistakes.   
But today I felt under control in some moments, but then I think I gave her some free points.  I think you pay the price for that.  You have to watch out on those unforced errors.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT