DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 22, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/C. Garcia   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on that?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think it was a very good match, especially the first set.  I felt that whoever could win it...   
I felt much better this match than the match we played in Doha.  It's always difficult because we played almost in the same week twice.  When you play a top-10 player, and you beat second time in a row, it gives you a good sign that what I'm doing is right.   
 Q.  How did you feel after your late night last night?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: You know, I was a little bit upset because, you know, you can play late, but it was very late.  I ended up sleeping at 4 a.m. there's nothing, I have to eat it.   
Today I somehow fought with a little bit of the tiredness yesterday.  That's it.  One day is going to go my way, one day is going to go against me.   
 Q.  Did you ask if you could go on another court?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, I did.  I think it's just TV.  Obviously nobody thought that all the matches were going to be two hours and a half.  But, yeah, they gave me that answer.   
 Q.  What did you think when it started raining tonight?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: The last thing that could happen to me because it never rains in the desert.  I saw a couple of drops.  I'm like, Okay, listen, if I could play yesterday at 2 a.m., I can play with few drops.   
 Q.  You went on a very good run after that, didn't you?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: The running?   
 Q.  You won I think four games after that.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes, sorry.   
There was a moment where I could step in the score, get a little bit of advantage.  I think she made few mistakes.  I was very solid there.   
This is what it happens:  as soon as you miss three shots, you feel it right away.   
 Q.  The turnaround is quick from Doha, and the conditions are quite different.  How pleased are you with how you managed to keep up your form?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It is very different.  I mean, Doha is more windy and it's more dry.  Here, it's very specific, but the surface is a little bit different.  We feel it.  Especially me, that I went the next day and I could practice a little bit, then right away play.   
But it's a good problem to have.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your possible next opponents.  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I played once again Kasatkina before.  Very difficult match.  I think she always plays very good against the top players.  She has good wins.   
Vesnina, I never played her.  I will look forward to play against the players I never played also.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT