QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 16, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/C. Garcia   
3-6, 6-1, 6-4   
 Q.  Garbiñe, from 1-1 in the second set it seemed like you were able to shift gears and improve your level.  How happy were you with how you were playing the second and third set?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, not only the second and third set, I'm happy overall with the match because even though in the first set she played very well, you know, this kind of game and match changes a lot.  So I knew that if I keep concentrated and fighting, it could turn around.  And then I also started to play a little bit better, and that helped.   
 Q.  Did you make any adjustments, do you think, like in that second set to kind of flip things around your way?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  Well, I think we were playing longer rallies, and I found myself in a better position, playing my shots and also going for my shots instead of, you know, she was finding the court, so I gave her a little bit of trouble.   
 Q.  And did you feel as though that was maybe the best match you've played this season, in 2018?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I think so, because you know, I didn't play a lot of matches, and this is actually the first match, I guess, that I play against a Top 10 this year.  So yeah, it was a good level from both of us.   
 Q.  And then next obviously you have either Simona or CiCi.  Thoughts on potentially playing Halep who is leading Bellis right now?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: A good match.  We've played many times together and she's with a lot of confidence and playing well, so I look forward for another top match.   
 Q.  And what does it mean for you just for this season to kind of get that first semifinal under your belt at a big tournament, play good tennis early on, especially just after everything that kind of didn't go your way in January?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  It's very important.  That's why I came here looking for as many matches as possible and facing the top players, and especially, like you say, at the beginning of the year that it wasn't my way.  Now I can turn things around and feel better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT