WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/M. Linette
6-2, 1-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What happened in the second set?  How did you turn it around?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, I think the second set I didn't play well.  I did way too many mistakes.  I was playing perfect for her.  I think she increase her level.  You know, she found a way to right away put her in control.  That's what happened.
I kind of forgot about it start of the third set.  I'm like, Whatever, okay, I have another set to play now.  I play a little bit better, and that helped me.
Q. Did the break help you?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think so because, you know, she was serving also very good.  When you make a break, you kind of breathe a little bit.  You know that you have more control.  For sure.
Q. You didn't seem too pleased at the end of the match.  What were you I guess most frustrated about in the match?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I didn't really play my best tennis.  I'm happy, of course.  Maybe I didn't jump when I won, but I'm very happy.  These are the matches, it sounds classic, but you fight, you go through, you get the victory, you feel pleased with yourself.
But, you know, I wish I could play a little bit better, especially the second set where I think didn't go my way at all.  Few things that I would like to adjust hopefully for the next match.
Q. Is your leg a concern at all?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Not really.  I mean, today I had a very tough match.  I could go out there and fight.  Didn't really felt it a lot.  So I think it's improving.
Q. Did you feel your leg from yesterday or had you been feeling it before that?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Actually started in Tokyo, in the last tournament, in my last match where I felt it.  I takes a few days to get rid of these injuries.  Here also competing back-to-back, we don't have a lot of time, so we have to survive.
Q. Speaking of surviving, obviously you've qualified for Singapore, you have that looming at the end.  So much of the goal of this section of the season is staying healthy, being fit.  How do you balance that with having a bit of a niggle while playing these bigger tournaments?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: The Asian swing, everybody knows it's a little bit tricky.  It's the last swing.  If you play three tournaments in a row, it's easier to have pain somewhere here and there.
Like you said, I think it's important to find a balance between resting well.  I did a quick training before.  Even in Tokyo, I used it as a training tournament, as well, to hold here my body.
It's tough because you're playing here, and almost Saturday or Sunday Beijing starts.  I don't know, you got to figure it out.
Q. Did you think the match today was the sort of match that maybe you would not have won last year?  You had a bit of an injury, weren't playing so well, but you still battled through and won it.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I mean, I'm not sure about last year.  But for sure, maybe three or a couple of years, I think would be tough.  Maybe I was a little bit too upset about that second set, and I couldn't really just forget about it.
But, you know, these are the matches that you cannot let them go.  One is going to win, and is the one that wants it more and is more aggressive and brave.  I don't know, I feel very different.
Q. People are already getting excited about the next match between you and Jelena Ostapenko.  How do you see that one?  Is it more special because she won the French Open?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think she is just playing very good.  I saw she won just a title right now.  She's having a good year, actually like a breakthrough year.
It's interesting.  I like to play these matches where you're playing the players that are playing the best.  You want to see, you want to feel that.  It's going to be a good quarterfinals.  I'm looking forward for that.
Q. Jo Konta was saying earlier in the week the women this season have played some amazing matches.  You had a great match at Wimbledon, also at the US Open, but they haven't been getting the credit they deserve.  What do you think of that?  Do you agree with that?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: If I agree with that?  Well, I don't really know what she's referring to.  Like in terms of I don't know if it's recognition, who, the press or the media.  I'm not sure about that.
It's hard for me to know that because I never check.  I never look.  It's true that people ask me few matches that I played, Oh, that was a great match.  I don't know what to expect.  I'm not hoping to see that as a headline.
I don't know.
Q. Generally speaking, this season, the level of the women's game has been very high.
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yes.
Q. Would you agree with that?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I do agree with that.  I think it's incredible what is happening this year, because it's very different from the previous year where maybe one or two players are dominating.  We feel like every week there is the best players, that we're very close, a lot of diversity.  It's always, Who's going to win?  A new player always wins a new tournament.
Q. Some of the other players didn't seem very upset at losing early this week.  For you on court, it looks like you've been able to keep up your intensity.  How hard is it at this stage of the year versus earlier in the year?  Also for you, do you love winning more or hate losing more?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Is tough this tournament because the conditions are very different.  Is very humid.  Is fast, it bounces.  It's hard to adapt.
Like I'm not surprised that maybe the favorites are losing because everybody plays very good.  If you're not 100% and the other one plays good...  Today I have a very tough match and I could have been also gone.  It's very tricky.
I do hate more losing than winning, of course.  It's like, you know, disappointing to lose.
Q. Do you ever read what people write about you either in the newspapers or online?  Do you read much of that?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: You know, I was going to say 'younger'...  It's not that I'm old, but before I was paying more attention to what was coming, social media and stuff.  You know, not any more.  I feel like, Why?  Why should I look all this?  Is not necessary.  Plus most of the things are bad or bad comments.
I do read something is interesting.  Or my PR tells me, This came out, you should read it.  But not bad influence.  I don't check.
Q. Even in the Spanish media, you don't read much?
GARBINE MUGURUZA: No, Spanish media is tough.  Especially Spanish media I don't read because they can be -- they're used to have great players.  When you're not winning that much, they kind of kill you, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT