U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/M. Rybarikova
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It was another really comprehensive win over Rybarikova.  What did you take from the Wimbledon match that you were able to employ today, if anything?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I took a lot.  Playing somebody in the third round that you play in semifinals, you know, it's a little bit tough match, and I just learn of what I did there.  And, you know, basically I do a lot my game, you know.  Go forward, try to hit some big shots and big serves.
Today went my way at the start of the match almost, yeah.
Q. How confident are you feeling right now, especially compared to last year?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, it's very different.  You know, I feel I improve a lot as a tennis player.  You know, the summer has been great, and I'm playing a lot of matches.  So the fact that I played so much matches gives me, you know, gives me pretty good confidence.
Q. This is a pretty straightforward win for you.  Was there something that was particularly working for you out there today?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think my concentration, you know.  She's a very talented player.  I'm taking every match as a final here.  You know, my big shots were there.  I went a lot forward to the net.  I think overall I did a good match.
Q. A question on the scheduling.  Caroline was a bit unhappy the other night that she was on so late, and she said Maria had been on Ashe three times in a row.  I was wondering if you had any thoughts about that.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's normal.  It was a very complicated day.  I know that.  I also didn't know where I was going to play, which is a little bit weird.  I think it's business, and that's what it is.
Q. Petra next.  Curious what your thoughts on that match are.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Tough match, actually.  I think she's an incredible player.  It's going to be interesting.  It's a good fourth round to play.  We played before and I won, she won, so I'm expecting a good match.
Q. New York is a very popular city.  It's in movies, songs.  I'm curious, growing up, if you saw New York for the first time in one of those media and thought you'd like to visit it some day?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, of course I think everyone has seen New York in the movies for the first time.  In that case I think it's also me.
I don't know.  My image was all these high buildings.  I don't know.  The Central Park, just walking in the street.  The yellow taxis.  Yeah, classic things.
Q. Take you back to July.  You were talking the other day about that road trip across Europe.  What did you and your mum talk about?  Was it about tennis, Wimbledon?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: You're going to love this.  We were talking about what we're going to do when we arrive to Barcelona, because we were planning to do a barbecue, we're going to buy this, going to buy that.  You know, just preparing the next couple of days there to just enjoy.
And also talking about Wimbledon, of course, you know, how it went.  I spend there three weeks and how it went, the ball, and -- you know, mom questions.  That was pretty good.
Q. Serena just went into labor earlier and just had a baby girl.  I want to know your thoughts on that.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Baby girl?  Well, I hope she doesn't play tennis (smiling).
Well, I'm very happy for her.  I mean, such a good moment, I'm sure.  Well, there it is, in her arms, I'm sure, also.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT