AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2018
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/J. Ponchet   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel like you were able to move out there?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: It was a very different match 'cause I didn't know her at all.  She came up with -- well, her style of game, it was very different.  She put me in trouble in a lot of situations.   
But I'm happy that, you know, it was a good, like, try for me, to be able to face that style of game and win the match.   
 Q.  A lot of us hadn't seen her play either.  It was quite a game style.  What did it look like from your side of the net?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I didn't know a lot about her.  I couldn't find a lot about her.  Sometimes that's a little bit tricky.   
But she came out, she had a very good serve.  Just unpredictable shots, I would say.  That kept me a little bit guessing a lot of times.  I think she played good.   
 Q.  She's 21.  Do you think she can break the top 100 one day?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Well, yes, I think so.  Like she played with me, I never thought she can be a wild card.  I think she can be perfectly playing with her style.  She can be dangerous.  She will probably have to improve certain things like everybody, but yeah.   
 Q.  In terms of your performance, all the question marks and doubts you may have had going into this match, how are you feeling afterwards?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I'm very pleased.  It's not easy.  I'm hungry of matches.  I want to play as many as I can.  To be able today to win and get another day in a tournament and have another match on Thursday, I think it's good.  I'm pleased.   
 Q.  Were you surprised by her strokes?  Had you seen her before?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: I think she has a very different style of game.  Serve, volley, back one hand, unpredictable shots.  I think it was tricky to play against her.   
 Q.  How did you prepare to play her?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: When I have these situations, I just focus on myself.  You don't really know how much about the other one.  I try to, you know, do my game, concentrate about myself, about my health that is a little bit there, and that's it.   
 Q.  When you go onto court, that was the first time you'd seen her play?  
GARBINE MUGURUZA: Yeah.  I didn't know her before.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT