U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How different does it feel to be at the US Open this year as it compares to years past or specifically last year?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Not a big difference.  I guess, you know, maybe a more favorite, I guess, or that's -- I don't know, feeling.
Nothing different.  I'm happy to be back.  Last major of the year.  Looking forward to improve my last results.
Q. One of the big stories coming into the tournament is the return of Maria Sharapova.  When you think about her game, what do you think of most and what are your thoughts on her being back?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: What I think of her, I think she's a fighter, you know, great attitude, big fight, spirit in the court.
Well, I guess the fans want her back.  I guess she -- you know, she will improve the tournament.  That's what it feels like.
Q. How do you feel about her being given a wildcard?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, it's once again something really tricky to answer, because I guess when someone has been, you know -- I don't know if it's banned, the word, or, like, out of competition, I think you have to work for it, you know, a little bit to go and play your tournaments and not help that much sometimes, you know.  You've got to work hard and deserve it again.  I think that's the way.
Q. No fewer than eight women come into this tournament with the possibility of walking out No. 1 at the end.  What's that say about the wide-open nature of the tournament?  Not just for people like you at the very top but for like the rest of the field.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, it is going to be a fun tournament, I guess, because there is a lot of movement.  A lot of things can happen.  I just think it's great.  It's great for the fans, for the people who are going to watch who is winning, who's not.
And then there is new names, options, also, so it's interesting.
Q. How different do you feel at the US Open this year compared to last year?  I mean, coming off the summer and how you played, are the shoulders more relaxed?  Do you feel less pressure?  Mentally how are you?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't feel more relaxed.  Of course, being in a Grand Slam, doesn't matter what you did before.  Is always nervous and excitement.
Like I said before, I don't really feel different.  You know, I always come very, like, full of hope here to try to make a good tournament.  Even before it didn't really happen, every year, new page and just looking forward to see what happens.
Q. What do you think about the rules changes, quallies, time clock, coaching for women?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, they have to test it.  So maybe it's not a bad way to start testing.  They can also do it in other events.  I don't know.  If they want to test it they have to do it somehow, somewhere.  It's a good start.
Q. When you won your first Grand Slam, you kind of struggled a little bit after that.  After Wimbledon, you have had a good summer since.  Are you approaching this any differently?  If so, how?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm approaching it as I try to -- the only thing, like, I have to, you know, like win.  You know, that's what I want, of course.
But try to be realistic, I guess.  Not because I won before a Grand Slam or a tournament or something's going to come here and help me.  I'm sure it helps me with my motivation and confidence but after that you have to go out there and play.  All these players are playing great.  They're going to give you the hardest battle.  There is nothing granted.
Q. New York is definitely a different place to play a tournament.  What do you make of the city?  Do you feel like you have adjusted to it over the years, coming back year after year?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think here it's all about the balance, finding a nice spirit of competition and also enjoying a little bit of the city, to not get overwhelmed about the city and what is going on.  So that's what I'm looking for.  Enjoy, once I get out of the tennis court, try and enjoy the city, because it's very, 24/7 alive.  That's how I feel.
And after, be fresh to compete.
Q. Have you found things over the years you like to do each time you're here?  Maybe specific routines or places to visit?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think walk less and be in the street less, because it's so -- I don't know.  Like sometimes I feel like, Oh, there is a shop, like, three blocks, and three blocks is amazing, long, and so exhausted.  So I don't know.
Q. How would you describe yourself as a hard court player right now?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's very similar to other surface, you know.  I think my game is quite similar.  You know, I'm a very aggressive player.  Try to fear less as possible and getting the control, so I think hard court also helps me in that way.
Q. And your degree of confidence on hard court right now versus any time in your career?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Honestly, not especially confident.  I think I had good tournaments in a row, which is great for me, but I had good results also in hard court, so I'm not that surprised that I can play in hard court.  I don't know.
Q. You're obviously working with Conchita during Wimbledon.  Wondering if she's a part of your team along with Sam this slam as well?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No.  She's not going to come here, but I guess we will be in touch.  You know, I know it was incredible run at Wimbledon but it was something more at Wimbledon.
I thought about it.  I'm, like, Just in case, come back (smiling).
Q. Good luck charm?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, she is.  For now she's like invincible right now.  She never lost with me.
Q. Was this her decision or your decision?
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: To not come?
Q. Yeah.
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think my decision with my team.  You know, now I have my full team here.  Yeah, that was kind of...  That's it, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT