BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 24, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/G. Muguruza   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  On the match, it looked like you were flat out there.  Was anything wrong?  What's your explanation for kind of the flat performance?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think my tennis wasn't there tonight, and, you know, I didn't started playing well.  She, you know, is very tough, such a great server.  I don't know if that's the way you say it.   
I felt like during the match I couldn't really found it, either.  She really took advantage of that.  And after, it was very hard to kind of catch her, because of, you know, her style of game.   
 Q.  Was the long match before and just kind of not knowing if you had to warm up or not warm up have any impact on tonight?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I mean, no, not really.  I was warm, I was ready.  I didn't expect this outcome, honestly, but, yeah, a little bit disappointed.   
 Q.  Obviously you're still in contention and have to turn around and play again in a couple of days.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah.   
 Q.  How do you decompress from this?  Have you had a chance, probably not, to talk to your coach yet about it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm not going to think a lot about this match, because it's one of those days when, you know, the other opponent is playing good and your tennis is not at the level it should be to play against this type of player, so I'm just going to concentrate on my next match, because I know I have some chances still.   
I'm not a super friend of this round robin, but now it can help me turn things around, so that's honestly what I'm thinking right away.   
 Q.  Obviously it will be a rematch of the Wimbledon final next, so maybe extra motivation there?  Kind of a way for you to click forward pretty quickly?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I mean, I'm going to try to do everything I can to be different than today.  And I don't know.  Just I guess it's the last chance and try to take it.   
 Q.  You had a tape on your left thigh.  What happened there?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Just prevention.  You know, this surface is very aggressive, and I know I'm expecting tough matches.  So I thought, you know, to prevent and not have a big issue.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT