BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 22, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/J. Ostapenko   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Were you feeling a little bit nervous towards the end of that match?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I mean, it's a key moment.  You know, I wanted to win so badly, and she was just not giving me anything.  I think she was even playing incredible shots but she was down.  And, you know, I thought it's normal that she's playing incredible and I'd kind of wait for my moment, where until I serve and try to take control.  It went well.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how difficult it is to play Ostapenko?  She hits the ball so hot, and how heavy does her ball feel off your racquet?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, she's very aggressive player.  There is a bunch of players that, you know, have quite similarities.  I think the most important thing is if they are in confidence and if they are in a good moment.  I think Ostapenko had an incredible run this year and she has the confidence.  That's what makes her even more dangerous.  I knew going into the match that she could play unbelievable, so I kind of went prepared.   
 Q.  You broke her five times tonight.  You seemed to have a very good read on her service games.  Can you talk through why you think that is?  What was it about it?  Was it the second serve and knowing you were going to get those chances if the percentages weren't high?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I mean, maybe her serve was maybe less effective today.  I played her a bunch of times already, and, I mean, she can serve very good sometimes, like everybody.  And sometimes, you know, you can make some double faults.   
When you're aggressive, you take a lot of risk.  She's aggressive.  She takes some risk, and I try to jump on every occasion I have.   
 Q.  Having been here before, how important do you think it is to start out with a win in a round-robin situation?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think it's very important.  What I learned from the past is that every game counts, every set, because at the end only two are going to pass.  And previous winners had lost twice and they have won, which is incredible.  I take it as a final, honestly, every point, every game, every set.   
 Q.  You said that Ostapenko is very confident because of the great year that she's had.  How did you prepare for that?  Now that you've beaten her, does it give you any more confidence?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Of course.  You know, every win here, you know, you enjoy a lot because there is eight and the best eight of the year.  It's very difficult, so when you go out there and have a good performance and you're able to win in two sets, that gives you the knowledge that you're playing well, too, and you did a great tactic, a great match.  And, you know, I won, so for sure it gives me confidence.   
 Q.  What do you think about your next matchup?  It will be against Karolina.  You had a bad record against her until you beat her in Cincinnati.  Talk about how you think that match might go.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, the record is on her side, but, you know, I like playing those type of players.  Even if it's difficult, I like to go out there and give the hardest battle, and that's what I'm planning to do.  It's good that I'm playing her again.  That's a good sign.   
I'm going to try to learn what I did in Cincinnati that was good and give her the fight, and we'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  Karolina said that she feels good this year because she's more used to the court and more familiar with it.  So today how much do you think, having been already here the last two or three years, how much do you think that helped you today?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think between all of the players, probably I am one of the ones that have come most.  I think Halep also have come every year, too.   
I know the surface.  I know the court.  I played very big matches here, too, so it helps.  But at the end, you know, you have younger player coming.  You know, Cibulkova never played before and then she comes and she won last year.   
So sometimes I don't really know how much importance is that.   
 Q.  How much adjustment do you feel like when you come back to Singapore and you step on these courts?  The first few times that you hit the ball or serve the ball in the court, how much do you notice maybe how difficult or tricky or different the conditions are on that court?  And then how much do you and how quickly can you adjust to it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, here comes experience of knowing where I'm coming, and I already train before in indoor.  I was kind of, you know, prepared in my mind to a dark court, to, I don't know, nice environment, a pretty slow court, very aggressive, and I think it kind of suits me.   
I don't know.  I never know what suits me or what not.  I don't really think about the surface like maybe other players.  I just go out there and try to play my game, and that's it.   
 Q.  So this fan question is what is your go-to coffee order?  When you go to order coffee, how do you like it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Black and no sugar.  Hard, like rough, like, eww (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT