BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 21, 2017
Garbine Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel coming into this tournament after the last tournaments in Asia where you were a bit sick?  And what are your thoughts on your group?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I feel like this year is completely different, you know, because the previous years in Singapore I qualified, you know, in the last tournaments, but this year I felt like I knew in the American swing that I was already qualified.   
You know, there is always a very tough field, and I was actually watching the draw and I didn't have a big preference, because I know all of them are going to play very good.  Especially this year it is so competitive and equal.  But I guess the big hitters are in the right team.   
 Q.  Do you prefer that?  I mean, do you prefer playing the big hitters and kind of maybe going for the shorter rallies and using more of the court?  I mean, you're not just a big hitter.  You can work the whole court.  But do you prefer that, or do you like playing counter-punchers?  What's kind of your take on it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Honestly, no preference.  Lately I have been playing with the big hitters, and I felt a little bit better than maybe in the past, because every aggressive player is complicated to face.   
But I improved that side of my game, and, yeah, it's good that I'm going to play with them again.   
 Q.  Just physically, with the couple of weeks off, how are you feeling?  How is the leg feeling?  How do you feel coming into the tournament?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I feel prepared and ready looking forward.  This is, like I said before, one of the most prestigious tournaments.  I had a big rest after Beijing, because also I was a little bit sick.  I took my time, start training, and last push of the year.   
 Q.  Do you think that this is the most open and competitive that women's tennis has ever been?  How do you feel about the game today?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think right now is, yes, it's open.  It's way different than before.  I feel like, you know, every week, depends who is playing well, can be in the top.  You know, it gives us a lot of options and variety.  You know, just more, like, dramatic for the fans and for us too to see that every week everything can change.   
 Q.  And the fact that there have been five different world No. 1s this year and seven women with the chance to end the year at the top, you included, do you think that's a good sign for the game?  How important is getting that world No. 1 ranking to you?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes, is very equal.  I mean, this tournament is a key.  Depends who is going to play -- you know, players here, they play well and they can finish No. 1, and it's like seven or eight or something like, they have the chance.  For me, it's just great.  It's going to be tough environment.   
What was the second question?  Sorry?   
 Q.  How important is it to get back the world No. 1 ranking?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Ah.  It is important, I'm not going to lie, of course, but I know I have to play well.  I know there are so many girls, players, that have the chance.  I'm happy that I got it in the past, and now I'm not that, you know, nervous or obsessed.  I think it's more different.  So I'm going to fight for that.   
 Q.  Caroline Garcia has been a bit of a topic the past few weeks.  Were you surprised the run she had, winning those two tournaments and qualifying for Singapore?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm not surprised.  You know, I think she always -- she's always a tough opponent, very talented.  I think it was just a matter of time and a moment where her game was coming to a good point.  I remember, because two years ago I had a similar run and I ended up qualifying where I was a little bit in behind.   
So, you know, that's why every tournament counts.  There is no little match, especially this Asian swing where every tournament gives a lot of points.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on Venus Williams, 37 years old, her first time back in the Finals since 2009.  Does that give you encouragement for the length that you could be playing and stuff?  What do you think about her being here again?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: If it does give me strength, not really, because I don't see myself playing that much that far, but what is incredible is that she's playing at this level and she's hungry and she wants to keep making history.   
I'm going to face her also this upcoming week.  So I just think it's incredible.  But hopefully -- I don't think my body can handle that many years in the field.   
 Q.  That's what she said.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I know.  Everybody says that.  Everybody doesn't think they are going to pass 30, and at the end they are 35 and they are playing.  I know (smiling).   
 Q.  This year you're coming in with a Grand Slam under your belt and having been No. 1 before.  Does that give you any more confidence coming into the competition?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes.  Well, I think I'm a more experienced player.  I played important matches in my career.  This is not the first WTA Finals that I play.  Everything counts.   
You know, I feel more a complete player, if I look back three, four years ago.  Even one year ago I feel already much more mature.  I know it's not the perfect word, but more experienced.   
 Q.  Looking back on 2017, obviously a bunch of different achievements for you, but what are you most proud of in this season when you look back on it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: What I'm proud?  Well, there are a lot of things.  You know, even at the beginning of the year I had few injuries and, you know, I was a little bit sad because I felt like I worked so hard in the preseason I couldn't really, you know, show it in the court.   
I didn't drop my spirit.  In the clay season, I was really motivated, and, you know, I just cleaned that and start strong in Wimbledon thinking that my time was gonna come.   
After that, everything went well.  And what I like the most, it's like after winning a Grand Slam I could manage to maintain that level for couple more tournaments and, you know, just not get lost.   
 Q.  Does it actually feel like a season of two halves for you?  Obviously there was the low of not being able to defend your title at Roland Garros and then almost straightaway winning Wimbledon.  Do you feel like it's been, like, just half of the year was tough and then the other half has just taken you straight through?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: You mean for French Open?   
 Q.  Yeah, it just felt like you had two separate years.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, it's funny, because -- this whole year since the French Open is done, I get the question of if, after the French Open, I was like so hungry for revenge or something, and that's why I won Wimbledon?  I'm, like, No.  I think it's just an important tournament in my career where it was a new experience, very emotional, and once it was finished, I started new season.   
I was, like, Okay, it's finished.  I have more chances in grass.  I know I play well.  We'll see this love/hate that I have, if it works this year.  That's it.  It has nothing to do with the French Open tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT