NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 7, 2016
Matthew Dellavedova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Indiscernible).
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Well, they're switching a lot, so that's taking away from some of it.  So I think, yeah, they're all long and around the same size, so they do a good job of that, taking us off the three.  So we have to be ready to shoot, knock them down, and also take what the defense gives us and try to penetrate and drive and kick.
Q. Some have suggested moving you into the starting lineup. Would you be ready to do that?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: No, we've got confidence in J.R.  He's doing a good job.  We just need to find ways to get him some more looks.
Q. What did you think of Bogut's performance the other night in the first quarter?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Oh, I mean, he's been playing really well.  As I've said, he anchors their defense.  He had four or five blocks in the game, and he finishes around the rim, obviously, sets really good screens for their shooters.  So he's playing well.
Q. You mentioned that word "aggressive".  In last year's Finals you helped set the tone on physicality.  What have you seen in that area?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I mean, I think it's just overall rebounding, defense, even offense.  Just attacking more.  I think RJ really did a good job of that last game.  He got loose balls, rebounds, really driving and attacking the rim.  So I think we should look at what he did, especially the bench unit, and try to bring more of what he brought into Game 2.
Q. Did you guys defend hard enough in Game 2?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Oh, I mean, they obviously got the win comfortably, so we need to defend better in Game 3.
Q. How does being home change the momentum and change things for you guys?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Oh, Oracle's obviously a tough place to play.  They've got great fans.  But we have really great fans here that support us all year and we're really looking forward to getting back out here too and playing.
Q. How much easier or natural is it to run at home?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I think just, you know, you get a bit of a boost from the crowd.  I think you can definitely feel their energy when you're out here playing, so we've got to make the most of that.  It's not just going to happen by itself.  We need to make it happen.  So, yeah, we're definitely looking forward to it.
Q. Do you expect Kevin Love to play tomorrow night?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: You'll have to ask him.
Q. Coach Lue said he brought up Oklahoma City being up 3-1, but Golden State being able to come back against them.  What do you take away from that?  Obviously, things looked very dire for the Warriors at that point and they may have been blown out in a couple of those games but they were able to pull it out.  Do you take anything away from that series?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Oh, I mean, there are ebbs and flows in series as well as in games.  I think we come out and put on a good performance in Game 3, it's a very different series.  They're a tough team to play at home, but we're also a tough team to play here.  So we're looking forward to getting out there tomorrow night.
Q. Is it a case of playing tougher and stronger on the defense and maybe a little bit smarter?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Yeah, you can't just play harder, you've also got to play smarter.  They play with a lot of movement -- ball and player movement.  You have to be aware of where their shooters are at all times.  All their guys like to cut to the basket, and they have a lot of good passing.  So you need ball pressure and you need to have awareness of the ball.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT