NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 1, 2016
Matthew Dellavedova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is it being right back here in the Bay Area a year later in The Finals again with a chance to get revenge on the Warriors and win a title?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: We're happy to be back in this position and have the opportunity.  We're looking to make the most of it.   
 Q.  I know you guys didn't use this as an excuse last year, but how frustrating was it to go into The Finals and then by the second game really not be at full strength?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: You're not thinking about that while you're in it.  You're just concentrating on what you need to do to try to get a win.  So we're looking forward to this year and seeing what we can do.   
 Q.  How much more potent do you feel this team is than the team that was here last year, especially after Kyrie [Irving] went out?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Obviously, having Kevin [Love] and Kyrie healthy is going to help a lot.  I think we've been playing some really good basketball in the Playoffs and we continue to get better.  If we can keep getting better as this series goes on, I think that will help us a lot.   
 Q.  How important is it for the game in Australia to have two Aussies up here in The Final again?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I think it's great for the game.  I know a lot of people are following back home and picking sides.  It's really good and I'll look forward to playing with [Andrew Bogut] at Rio and getting into camp the 5th of July and getting started there.   
 Q.  Do you expect to come into much contact with him during the game?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Just trying to look out for his screens, but that's about it.   
 Q.  What did you learn about being on the big stage last year?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: There are going to be a lot more extra time commitments and stuff like that.  We have to come here early to do media.  But when you get out on the court, it's still basketball so it's not too much different.   
 Q.  What did you learn from facing Steph [Curry] last year?  You obviously guarded him often.  How are you better prepared to go against him now having gone through that?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: He's a tough cover.  He's elevated his game to another level this year.  It's going to be a team cover as it always is, because you have to be alert at all times.   
 Q.  When you guard him, what makes him so much more difficult?  Is it just the range, the ball handling?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: It's a combination of everything.  It's the range, quick release, ball handling, movement without the ball.  All the things you mentioned.  So, yeah, it's a team cover and everybody has to be locked in to where he and Klay [Thompson] are at all times.   
 Q.  Watching Oklahoma City blow out the Warriors in two games, were you able to glean anything in terms of blueprint-wise?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I don't know about blueprint.  But you see certain things that they were trying to do.  Sometimes they do the same thing and they either make the shot or miss the shot.  You try to watch the other games and learn and pick up things.  But we'll have our own game plan and look to execute that as well.   
 Q.  What's the biggest difference with the locker room chemistry, with a different culture and everybody healthy?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: We have great chemistry.  I think RJ [Richard Jefferson] and Channing [Frye] have really helped that as well.  They're both characters and bring the team together.   
Everyone on the team is close.  We've had some time during the Playoffs to have some extra team dinners and hang out off the court.  I think all that kind of stuff helps in the long run.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT