NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 24, 2016
Matthew Dellavedova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What were some of the factors that went into that nice comeback last night, and do you have to play with a sense of desperation in Game 5?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I wouldn't say desperation.  I would just say more urgency.  I think that's what we did in the second half [in Game 4].  We picked up the intensity and physicality on defense, and that led to us getting some easy baskets.  Then we really executed well to start the fourth quarter.  But we just didn't get enough stops to separate.  We were scoring well and getting some easy baskets, but we just couldn't string together enough consecutive stops to get any separation.   
 Q.  How much more dangerous are they now that they've got some comfort in what they're doing and some rhythm and some obvious momentum?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: They're always dangerous with the guys they have who can get going at any time.  Once they get it going, it's hard to stop because they hit tough shots and make plays.  It's up to us to try to take them out of their rhythm and make it as hard as possible on them.  They're going to make shots.  You've just got to keep playing and don't get frustrated or discouraged.   
 Q.  How much more will home-court advantage meant to you guys tomorrow and if you have to play a Game 7?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: We're taking it one game at a time.  Obviously, the home-court advantage we have here is great and the fans are awesome.  But we can't just rely on that.  We've got to go out there and make it happen.  The crowd, while they're extremely helpful, we still have to go out and get a stop and put the ball in the basket.  We know what we have to do.  We just have to execute on both ends better.   
 Q.  What do you guys have to do to slow down [Kyle] Lowry?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I think just stay solid.  I think we've got good defensive schemes.  Like I said, they're going to make tough shots because they're really good players.  But we can't get discouraged by that or try to make something up on the fly.  We just have to stick to the game plan and just try to make it as hard as possible and wear them down.   
 Q.  What does it do to the rest of the team when you see LeBron [James] try and play every second of the game like he did coming close to doing last night?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: He's the leader of this team, and we follow his lead.  He was just trying to will us to victory.  He's doing it on both ends.  He's working hard out there.   
He's doing a lot for us, so we're just trying to help him in any way we can.   
 Q.  Did you have a sense coming into the game that he was going to try to pick up his minutes from what he had been playing?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I wasn't really thinking about that, but I'm sure he wants to be out there every second.   
 Q.  That second unit with you, Shump [Iman Shumpert], RJ [Richard Jefferson], Channing [Frye] and LeBron, what's so good about that?  How does that work?  It seems like it always provides a spark.  What works about that?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I think it's a good lineup for us.  It's the second unit with LeBron, so as the second unit, we know we have to bring a lot of energy and try to change the game with our defensive intensity and just try to give a lift.  I think we execute well offensively.  It obviously makes it a lot easier having LeBron out there with us.  He can kind of fit in any way that's needed out there.  He's a great passer.  He can make plays out of the pick-and-roll.  He sets great screens.  He's a great roller.  We know what we're going to run, and everybody knows what they have to be on offense to make it hard to defend.  Then we just try to communicate and fly around and cover for each other on defense.  We know it's our job to try to pick it up when we're in there and give a boost to the team.   
 Q.  Pace was a point of emphasis.  In the first two games in Cleveland, it seemed like the pace was your style.  The last two games in Toronto, it seemed like it was theirs.  What do you think is the reason for the change, and how do you make sure you get it back in your favor?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I think any time you can get out and play with pace and get easy baskets, it takes pressure off your offense.  It really starts on defense because it's hard to run and get out and get easy baskets when you're taking the ball out of the net and their defense gets a chance to get set.  As long as we can get stops and rebound the ball, it makes it a lot easier for us to get out in transition and get easier baskets.   
 Q.  Do you think three-pointers have become kind of a quick fix for you guys that you're relying upon too much?  I know it's great when they're going down, but when they're not, are you relying on them too many times?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I think we had a lot of good looks.  We knocked some more down, and nobody is talking about that.  I think if they're not going in, we have to keep trying to recognize that and be aware that we need to keep a balance of taking it to the rim.  If we keep pressure on the rim and it brings the defense in, then we're kicking out for easier looks.  It's definitely a balance, but if they're open, you've still got to take them and shoot with confidence.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT