NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 22, 2016
Matthew Dellavedova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. RJ [Richard Jefferson] was in here talking and he said it was never about the streak.  But can a wake-up call, if you want to call it that, be a good thing after winning 10 straight?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Toronto is a good team.  They've had good season, and it's tough to win up here.  We knew that coming in, and they played well.  We've got a lot of things we can improve on.  I wouldn't really call it a wake-up call because we knew it was going to be tough to win up here.
Q. Does what happened last night help them more or help the other team more?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: Well, they won the game, so I'd say it helps them more than us.  But we need to come out, play better defensively in Game 4 and get more stops.  I think that will help our offense.
Q. How is your ankle feeling?  How did you feel last night?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: It feels good.
Q. Do you have any limitations at all?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: No.
Q. How much was last night's result Toronto exhibiting more physicality, and if you agree, to what extent will responding to that be a key for you guys tomorrow?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: I think typically off the fact it's always the more physical team that wins.  I think they did a good job defensively and on the boards, so that's definitely something we need to improve on in Game 4.  We've got our meeting now, so we'll watch the tape and talk about what we need to do.
Q. When they come out and set the tone, though, can you wrestle it back?  Is that what you think you failed to do?  You know what I'm saying?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: They played with a lot of energy, and they've got some guys that feed off the home crowd and bring a lot of energy.  But I think if we just stick to our game plan and we execute it, I think we should be able to give ourselves a better chance than we did last night.
Q. Those little skirmishes like the thing we saw at half court with LeBron [James] getting elbowed and then later the flagrant to [Bismack] Biyombo, what effect do you think those have on the team?  What kind of response would they generate?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: It's the playoffs, so stuff like that happens every game.  I don't think it's a big deal really.
Q. Does it make you more determined maybe?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA: If it takes something like that to make you more determined to win a game in the playoffs, you shouldn't be in the Playoffs.  Yeah.  That's about it, really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT