U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2013
Jeff Brehaut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Jeff Brehaut, 2 under for the day, 3 under total. 
JEFF BREHAUT:   Hi.

Q.   Thoughts on the round? 
JEFF BREHAUT:   A little up and down, a little down early, and then I kind of had a really nice back side to shoot a good score, hit some shots in there, three feet, three of them.   So that took some pressure off.
The course is playing hard today, a lot of wind.   So, you know, really happy with the score.

Q.   Jeff, you shot 2 under for the day, had a great round.   You look at the leaderboard, you're still seven shots behind.   Is that unreal for you to think of? 
JEFF BREHAUT:   Am I seven back?

Q.   He's up to 10 now. 
JEFF BREHAUT:   Well, it's only one guy.   So I can't worry about him.   I've got to take care of myself.   I'm just fairways and greens and making some putts and shooting under par, it's going to take care of itself.
I want to wish my daughter, Natalie, a happy birthday.   She's over there.   She'd be thrilled.   She's 14.

Q.   Jeff, what do you need to do, moving into the weekend, to maybe catch up and get some shots back? 
JEFF BREHAUT:   Same thing.   Get a hot putter.   I wouldn't change my strategy of how I'm playing the course at all.   It's just a matter of executing the shots and converting. 
You got to make some birdies because you're going to make a few bogeys.   So if you can make some birdies, which I did the first two days, that's going to help.

Q.   Jeff, you're one of the few qualifiers on the leaderboard.   What does it mean to you to be up there like that? 
JEFF BREHAUT:   You know, I know all these guys.   I've played against them a long time.   So there's somewhat where you're going, here's Tom Watson, right, a legend, and there's little old me.   But I know if I'm playing well, I can get in there with those guys.

Q.   The fact you have a guy like Joe Daley wins a Senior Major, Roger Chapman wins two, Kohki Idoki.   Guys step up.   Does that give you confidence? 
JEFF BREHAUT:   Huge.   Yeah, big time.   Esteban Toledo earlier this year when he won.   I played with him so much for so long, when he got that win, it was like, wow, all right.   When I turn 50 and get out there, if he can do it, I can do it. 
It's still really hard.   These guys are better than I thought they were going to be.   But I think I can do it.

Q.   Thank you. 
JEFF BREHAUT:   Okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT