SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 29, 2013
Brian Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   Thanks so much, Brian.   Bogey-free for the second consecutive round.   How pleased are you with today?   
BRIAN DAVIS:   Obviously yesterday we had strong winds in the afternoon which made it really tough, tough pin positions.   Today there was a core out there.   Made some putts, could have gone low today.   Obviously they'll have the same softening.   I'm pleased to be where I am.   I haven't been in the best of form.   It's nice to get a little bit of momentum going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You've talked about your form.   You've only made 2 of 8 cuts.   What's clicked here this week?   
BRIAN DAVIS:   Just making a few putts here and there.   It's a funny game, you don't feel like you play bad, and all of a sudden, you're in contention.   That's just the way the game goes.  
   
 Q.   Tied for 4th here a year ago.   Does that give you a bit of confidence heading into the weekend, knowing you've gotten around the track pretty well?   
BRIAN DAVIS:   If you looked at my stat sheets, it's a bomber's paradise.   If you play well, you can get in contention.   I think, looking at the way the course is playing, there will be a few guys go past us.   As long as we're not too far away, it will be good.  
   
 Q.   See you on Saturday.   First off, your thoughts on your round.   
BRIAN DAVIS:   Yeah.   Obviously 2-under, I'll take that, no bogies.   It will be easier today with the wind especially the afternoon, pretty tough.   A few guys see holes out there.   You try not to make a mistake on those and make some birdies.   I'm fairly happy.   Puts me in a good spot for the weekend.   Only a few back.   I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Looking up at the board, it didn't seem like the same low scores were out there as yesterday.   
BRIAN DAVIS:   I don't know.   There were some tough pins yesterday.   They had some Sunday pins yesterday.   I mean, got off to a quick start, missed a few putts, but, yeah, just felt like there was a low score out there than what was posted on the board.  
   
 Q.   To be in the position you are heading into moving day, how do you handle that spot?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   It's only Friday.   Your focus is not exactly something new.   Just put yourself in a position.   Try to go low for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Is there a comfort level coming back here?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   Yeah.   Obviously we all know this course is going to play a lot tougher on the weekend when the wind keeps up and tuck the pins away.   This year the greens are a little slower.   They're firm and slower.   If they speed them up for the weekend, it might make things interesting.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your year so far.  
BRIAN DAVIS:   I haven't really played that bad.   Missed a cut by a shot.   Haven't been playing great or well.   Just make a few more putts and chip closer, hit a good shot here and there and get the momentum.   So far this year, I haven't had any.   It's nice to feed off that.  
   
 Q.   Withdrew from the Honda you had an injury.  
BRIAN DAVIS:   I wasn't feeling too good.   I just thought the best was to walk away and try to get myself ready for next week because I was down there in Florida.   No point in pushing yourself.  
   
 Q.   What do you do in this down time between now and tomorrow, are you a leaderboard watcher?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   No.   Obviously look at it.   It's not something I'm going to lean on.   Just practice, have something to eat and relax, try get some rest for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)  
BRIAN DAVIS:   No.   Just got to play.   Whether you play 25 or 30 events, it's just the way it is.   Last year I was playing up to Bay Hill.   This year I've actually played okay.   Just the way it is.   You know what this game is all about.   One week pop-up win; that's the way it is.   You just got to play, and obviously I remember when the FedExCup starts oh, no, my year is this, my year is that.   Everybody is.   Has settled into it.   It's new, so nobody likes change but we'll get it done.   It's no big deal.  
   
 Q.   What were the highlights today?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   I didn't hit the ball great strike-wise, but I hit it straight and just didn't make any mistakes.   The putter had been hot, I could have made quite a few birdies out there today.   Anytime you don't make any mistakes around this golf course, you'll take it.   It's one of them things I haven't missed it in any bad spots.   That's why I've made no bogies.   You can play -- you can play well around here and miss in it three, four wrong spots and you ain't going to make par.   Simple as that.  
   
 Q.   Is that the thing you're most about, shoot 36 around here?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   Obviously at the end of the day, you've got to make birdies if you want to win the tournament.   I'll take it anytime.   I don't look at it too much or pay too much attention to it.   I just make my shot and did that today.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT