THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2012
Brian Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about what was working for you on a day where the wind kicked up in the middle of your round, it changed?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   Yeah, there was not a breath of wind this morning, we hit our second shot to the second hole, and it got up, and it pretty much stayed up all day.   
You know, it wasn't playing easy, obviously the greens in the morning still have a little bit of moisture, but it's playing tricky.   We all know what this golf course is going to be like on the weekend, the greens will firm up and I think the forecast is for some wind, as well, so it's going to be a real test.   
   
 Q.   Last week at Quail Hollow after the great opening round, you said it was your worst ball‑striking round of the year, but it's gotten better gradually, hasn't it?   
BRIAN DAVIS:   Yeah all of my misses were in the right spot.   You just have days like that, and on the second day, got a few bad breaks and that's just golf.   
Coming out today, I hit a lot of good shots, a lot of good putts, and I'm happy where I'm at.   I'm obviously in a good position for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Your game, I guess the point I was trying to make, your game is improving at the right time here.   
BRIAN DAVIS:   Yeah, it's funny because the last few years, I played terrible, and probably had too much time off in the winter.   Three months is obviously too long.   
But once we get back to Florida, I like the heat; I live in Florida so I'm used to bermuda.   It's a good time for me to obviously come up the Dallas mini‑swing, if you like, and playing good golf.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to sit back this afternoon and watch the carnage?   If the wind picks up, the scores will keep getting higher?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   My carnage is I have seven kids at the house so I think it's going to be carnage.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.   
BRIAN DAVIS:   It's a different mind‑set but getting back to playing golf again.   That's probably the biggest thing, not so much worrying about stats, not so much worrying about what people say, what score you shoot.   You can play well one day and shoot 74 and you can struggle the next day and shoot 68, and a few putts drop in and that's the difference.   
Sometimes we have to step back from what we do and say, hey, this is pretty cool and I am enjoying myself.   It's easy to get bogged down with things, and just a change of perspective more than anything.  
   
 Q.   Is that change of perspective something you went through or Dr.Bob?   
BRIAN DAVIS:   My father passed away the end of last year and I had a tough time with that and came right at the end of my season, so I didn't have any golf to sort of keep me going.   I had two months off to think about things.   
It wasn't an easy time but I made a promise to my dad that I would use it as a positive, what he went through and what happened, and not let it be a negative on me, which is what he wouldn't have wanted.   It's just a change, and then, you know, sometimes you take the pickle off yourself and try to change a few things.   
Three young kids, wife, everybody goes through change.   It's just one of them things and obviously I'm just delighted with where I'm at right now.  
   
 Q.   When did he pass away?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   Saturday morning of Sea Island.   I can't remember the day off the top of my head.   
   
 Q.   What was his name?  
BRIAN DAVIS:   Robert.   
   
 Q.   How long was he ill?   
BRIAN DAVIS:   About six months, eight months.   It's still tough.   Always going to be tough.   I'm an only child, so only really ever had mom and dad.   I'm very, very close to my mom and dad, and you know, it's obviously one of those things that everybody goes through.   You never know until you go through it how you're going to react and how you're going to deal with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT