ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2010
Brian Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK WILLIAMS: Brian Davis, thank you for joining us at the Zurich Classic interview room. Following up a 71 yesterday with a 6 under 66 today to be right amongst it. Talk about your round, and I guess you're glad to be done after the morning.
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, yesterday was a tough day for me. First round back after last weekend and what's been going on this week. I was delighted to shoot 71 yesterday. 
 And today obviously I knew I was going to get softer greens and less wind in the morning. Didn't really take advantage of it. I was level par playing 18, and hit close there and made the putt and went on a crazy run. 
 Hit some good shots and holed a couple of putts, and I got up-and-down the last, which was nice. And it puts me in good position for the weekend. 

 Q. Is there just a continuation of your excellent play from last week? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, it's funny, I just haven't hit the ball great the last couple of days. It's funny because last week my back was sore and my neck was sore. And Peter Costas mentioned something about I was standing on my left side, and that's what happens when I get a sore back and sore neck. So that was quite nice to redirect the brain to move off the ball a bit more. And it's hitting slightly different this week from last week. 
 But I'm putting good, wedge game is good and obviously the mind's good after last week. So I'm looking forward to the weekend. 

 Q. Is this poetic justice, you know? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: Someone just asked me that. I'll tell you Sunday (smiling) if I break a rule on Sunday and get DQ'd, I'm going to give up. 

 Q. On number 11 you bogeyed that. What happened on number 11? How did that whole affect you? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: I knew they put the tee up, so I knew you'd be able to reach it with two big hits. And I went after my driver a bit and pulled it in the bushes. So I had to take a penalty drop. 
 Then, you know, just a routine bogey after that chopped it out. Hit on the green, missed about a 20 footer and obviously tapped in for bogey, but it could have been worse. 

 Q. Do you work with Costas or when did you hear that? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: No, no, someone told me. My friends told me. Was it Tuesday? And my caddie mentioned it to me on Wednesday. Because I had said a few things that my back was a bit stiff last week, nothing major. And that's often what happens when you stand on the left side. So it was quite nice to rejuke the brain into swing mode.

 Q. But did he say it on the telecast? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, he must have. That's where I heard it from someone. 

 Q. So just hearing that you're swinging better as a result of that? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: My timing is not quite there. But I'm not stiff at all, so obviously problem solved. So we'll just get going. And again this week's tough. I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow or Sunday, but the wind's supposed to be blowing. 
 It's hard to keep the swing in check for four rounds when it's blowing 20 miles and hour. But we'll see what happens over the weekend. But going forward, I'll see what happens with the weekend. I've putted well and I'm happy to be up in the lead. 

 Q. Did the front side play easier today or did you just play that side better? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: Obviously the wind was up on the front side which is my back side. The front nine, the greens were pure, they were receptive. Made a couple of bogies, missed a couple of putts. 
 But as I said, I hit 18. And I could have birdied 18, 1, 2, 3, and then on 4 I missed about an eight footer. But the next hole I made a 25-footer. So then I got up-and-down on the long six, is it? That was playing brutal with the wind. I hit driver, and hit a 3-wood in there and got up-and-down and holed a six or seven-footer there. So it kept the momentum going. 
 And as I said, I got up-and-down at the last. It was a few tricky pins. I got some pins that are four or five down the front. And when you're going downwind or crosswind and the ball not stopping, it's very hard to get the ball close. 
 So there are a few tricky pins out there. But it's going to be a test this afternoon with the wind. The greens are drying out. I don't know if there's any rain in the forecast, but it will be playing tough this afternoon. 

 Q. Have you seen it die down, the clamor die down from what you did on Sunday? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: No, no, obviously the emails. But when people come across me obviously saying something to me, which is nice. 
 MARK WILLIAMS: Were the greens markedly different this morning than yesterday afternoon? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: It was one of those where I hit the green, I hit it close. When I missed the green, apart from really the last, I left myself easy chips. So I was able to, you know, make a birdie or, you know, pretty simple chip. Chipped it within a few feet and made it. 
 It was one of those rounds where you just seem to miss it in the right spot and just the round goes quick. Obviously you end up with not a lot of putts. 
 Just holes like the second hole. I hit driver, 3-wood in the greenside bunker, splashed it out two feet. But I left myself a really easy bunker shot. It just makes life easier when you do that.

 Q. What threesome were you with today? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: I was with Webb Simpson, and Jeff Maggert who pulled out yesterday. He was struggling yesterday, so... 
 MARK WILLIAMS: Want to run through your birdies? 
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, hit driver at 10, sand iron to about 12 feet, holed it.
 12, I hit driver, hit the tree, and came back about 30 yards. Hit 3-wood to 25 feet and holed it. 
 On 18, I hit 3-wood, 3-iron, 8-iron to about 5 foot and holed it. 
 1, I hit driver 8-iron to 15 feet and holed it. 
 2, I hit a driver into the bunker splashed it out a couple of feet.
 3, I hit 5-iron to about 3 feet. 
 5, I hit driver, wedge to 25 feet and holed it. 
 And on the par 5, I hit driver, 3-wood, chipped it up to 8 feet and holed it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT