VERIZON HERITAGE
April 18, 2010
Brian Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS REIMER: We want to welcome our runner-up here at the Verizon Heritage, obviously a fantastic finish there with a birdie on 18. You can start with that and talk about the playoff a little bit, but start about discussing the birdie at 18 and getting into the playoff, itself.  
 BRIAN DAVIS: You know what, considering the way I felt this week, I've had no control over my swing. It's been one of the weirdest weeks ever.   
 I didn't feel comfortable on the golf course, but was still hitting shots and still getting it done. It's tough coming down the stretch. It was windy today, playing really tough. I missed a couple of key putts on 15 and 16. 15 was a good putt, 16 wasn't a bad one, I just misread it. I had a chance on 17, as well. Came down do 18, and unbelievable second shot. And obviously to make a putt, great getting in the playoff, but was a disappointment.   
 CHRIS REIMER: Go through the 18th hole, the playoff hole and the penalty.  
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, I had a great drive. One less club, was out to the right. And just turned it up a little bit into the wind, bounced down on the beach. Had a pretty decent line. (Indiscernible) Then I'd be guaranteed a chip. Decided to play it, so I could get it on the green and give myself maybe a 30-footer, I thought that was the best chance to make 4. And while I was taking my backswing, actually in the stroke, I didn't actually feel it, but there was a little branch, one of the weed things sticking out, a big bunch. I didn't feel it but I was pretty sure I saw something in the corner of my eye. So I asked Slugger to come over and check it on TV. And when he did check it on TV, I did indeed brush it on the way back, and the twig moved slightly, and obviously a two-stroke penalty.  
  
  Q. What was the club that you hit in playoff?  
 BRIAN DAVIS: 7-iron. Just turned it over a bit.  
  
  Q. Was that an aggressive play on your part? That's obviously the one place you can't miss obviously on that hole.   
 BRIAN DAVIS: Well, you know, I'm not trying to finish second in the playoff. I'm trying to win it. So I didn't hit a great shot. I hit a great shot in regulation. It was one of those things. I didn't pull it off. I did in regulation. And I was just trying to hit the right side of the green, maybe 15 feet right of the pin and just saw it turned into the wind, and pitched on down into the rocks.  
  
  Q. We always talk about a game of inches, there were putts that you and Jim today both missed that were just very, very close, that could have gone either way.   
 BRIAN DAVIS: That's the difference between winning and losing, it's such a fine line. As I said earlier, I haven't played that well this week, but my putting has been a bit sour this year. I've been putting pretty good. I missed a couple on the back nine, but overall it's been very good. And at the end of the day it came down to a couple of putts.  
  
  Q. There are other sports obviously where it would be inconceivable that anybody would call a penalty on themselves. Is that just the difference between golf and everything else?  
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, I think so it is. If I had thought, I hadn't then I wouldn't have called it. Again, as I said before, I didn't feel it. But I was pretty sure I saw -- I was actually closing my eyes coming down into the sand. It was one of those things I thought I saw movement out of the corner of my eye. And I thought we'd check on TV, and indeed there was movement.  
  
  Q. I don't need the number of the rule, but what is the gist of the rule you broke? And did you know about the rule?  
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, I knew about the rule. When we looked at it, I didn't think it was an issue. I thought the hole would be over the top of it. And obviously when I took the club away, I took it lower and obviously just grazed the thing. It's one of those things where there's a bunch where the weeds were piled up together, and it's stuck in the ground, but it's not fixed, it's a lose impediment. So it's classified as sand, it's not actually fixed in the swing, and he said it's a two-shot penalty, and that's that.  
  
  Q. I also wanted to ask you about the putt on 18. The putt on 17 you left just short, and then were you afraid that putt on 18 was going to come up short as well?  
 BRIAN DAVIS: I knew it was obviously going downgrain, downhill. I was quite surprised how much my 6-iron ran past the pin, because I struck it really good. I knew it was going to be quick. And it was just one of those things where I didn't make it. On 17 I just concentrated so hard on the line, I didn't hit it. It was right in the jaws. I've got to learn from that, and make a couple of putts on the back nine and that's what makes a champion.  
  
  Q. A moment ago you talked about the putt on 16, but looking down the line at that second shot, I don't know if you could talk about that for a minute, because where that pin was looked like you had a good second shot?  
 BRIAN DAVIS: On 16? Yeah, the wind was gusty today. A lot more than it has been all week. And it's one of those things where I was like, I've got a good number, I hit it to 2 feet. I'm looking 10, 15 feet, if it pitches good and bounces past the pin, I'll have a 15-footer for birdie.   
  
  Q. I didn't know if the trees --  
 BRIAN DAVIS: No, it was straight downwind. And as soon as it went out, you could see it wasn't right and it plummeted out of the sky. It hit an unbelievable bunker shot. It just didn't run out. And then the next putt I thought was going to break a little right and didn't. So unfortunately I made a bogey.  
  
  Q. Obviously such a crowded leaderboard to begin the day, but became a two-horse race on the back nine. Does that change your a approach, more aggressive?  
 BRIAN DAVIS: No, I knew actively Jim wasn't going to go away. You don't get to be one of the best players in the world by folding on Sunday. I knew he was going to be there. As I said before, I just give myself a chance the last six or seven holes, which I did, unfortunately I didn't finish it off. I'm proud of what I did on 18 the first time around. I missed three putts in a row that could have sewn up the tournament for me. To bounce back and hole that when I needed to was a good feeling for me. But obviously it doesn't relate to a win. So it's a bit disappointing.  
 CHRIS REIMER: You should be proud of what you did the second time around on 18, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT