VERIZON HERITAGE
April 17, 2010
Brian Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: Brian Davis joins us here in the interview room after a 5-under par, 66, currently the leader in the clubhouse at 10-under par. 
 Brian, it's been a consistent week for you all week, just two bogeys on the scorecard. Comment on the week as a whole so far and your round today specifically.
 BRIAN DAVIS: This is a different golf course than what we normally find. You've got to keep working it into the greens. I've made a couple of putts and put myself in position to have a go tomorrow. So I'm looking forward to it.

 Q. Did you pay much attention to the leaderboard today? Everybody seems in one spot. 
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, you know, normally I am a scoreboard watcher from Thursday morning to Sunday evening. But this week I've decided not to bother, because there are so many people there. If it was just two of you, with a four-shot lead going into tomorrow, and you'd probably want to look and see where you are. I think you want to go out and make as many birdies as you can. So many guys there, somebody is going to shoot great tomorrow, and you're going to have to try to catch them. Tomorrow it's go out and shoot as low as you can and not take your foot of the gas pedal. 

 Q. Any shots you felt like key to your round?
 BRIAN DAVIS: You know, I hit two good shots the first few holes. It was a tough start and I rallied and brought it back. I missed probably three or four really good birdie chances on the back nine, and made a couple of clutch up-and-downs. So, you know, at the end of the day as much as you want to make birdies, you've got to keep the round going. It's good not to drop any and obviously finish strong. Obviously it puts me in a good position tomorrow.

 Q. You mentioned earlier that the attitude probably for everybody is go out and make as many birdies as you can tomorrow. Is that a fun way to play? Do you like those kind of shootouts on Sunday?
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, I mean, you know, when you're in contention, if you win or do well, it doesn't matter what you shoot, you've got to enjoy it. This week the way the course has played with the wind as well it's put so many guys into it. The cut was 1-under on Friday. And 7-under was the lead. So, you know, it's just a different feel this week, so bunched and it's going to give guys probably three or four shots back tomorrow a great chance.
 JOHN BUSH: Let's go through the card real quick.
 Par-3, 4th hole.
 BRIAN DAVIS: I hit 4-iron to about 15 feet left of the pin and made it.
 5, dropped 3-wood on the green and chipped it up to three feet.
 7, hit 7-iron to about 30 feet left of the pin and made it.
 15, hit driver, 4-iron, lob wedge to 15 feet.
 17, hit it to a couple of feet there. So it was nice. 

 Q. Heath Slocum is in the lead and Jim Furyk is close, have you ever played with those two guys?
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, they're obnoxious (laughter). Probably two of the nicest guys on Tour to play with. Whatever. Yes, it does make a difference, but at the end of the day you play with so many people throughout your career. If it matters who you play with, you're going to have a problem. So you've got to do your thing. But I've been well received since I've come over from Europe, so for me it doesn't matter who I play with. 

 Q. Did you look at the field and say, well, this guy might be somebody to look at? Do you ever look at and say Davis Love won five times and Boo Weekley won recently. Do you look at the field and say, Jim Furyk is one of the best? Heath Slocum's name is laser. Do you look at the field and say this is how I'm going to play it?
 BRIAN DAVIS: No, because there's so many good players. I remember when I first came over from Europe, there was probably 40 or 50 guys that could really win, and the rest -- now you turn up every week, no matter what Tour you're on, from 1 down to 144, if they're on their game they can win. The strength and depth now is so good, you can't look at one player. Obviously coming down the stretch when you're in contention, having experience does help. But I'm not a spring chicken. I've been around long enough to know what I'll do tomorrow.

 Q. You said you didn't scoreboard watch much today. If you're in the final group tomorrow, I expect you will tomorrow?
 BRIAN DAVIS: Yeah, obviously if you're 6-under after 9 you might want to take a peek, (indiscernible) but you've got to figure whoever is leading at the end of the day -- I didn't think it would probably go that low, because it was a little windy today. But once you get around to 13, 14, 15, that wind round wind around there does this, so if you can keep yourself in contention, you have a great chance. 
 JOHN BUSH: Thanks for coming by. Play well tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT