DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 23, 2005
Brian Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Disappointing finish, but overall satisfied with the day's work?
BRIAN DAVIS:  No, not really. Steady start, picked up a couple of birdies and hit some close shots but got it going on the back nine. Hit it in the bushes on the 15th and made six. Missed a two footer for birdie on the 17th and obviously bogeyed the last. I am disappointed. There was a 63 or 64 all day there for me the way I was playing and putting and very disappointed with the finish. But the good thing is it is not the third day and I have 36 holes tomorrow. If I play well tomorrow I can pick up the title.

Today we had rain the start with and at 7.30 it was pretty nasty. You keep getting little showers and the wind picks up a little but it is not too bad.
Q.  Do you feel you are a better player from playing in America?
BRIAN DAVIS:  Yes, I do. If you play all types of golf., whether it be links or American styleM you can only improve. I am going over to the States after the US PGA and will play the rest of the season over there, but I have enjoyed my time in Europe. You do have to play different shots over here. The greens are so soft this week because of all the rain you cannot hit full shots in because it will just spin back off the green. You have to manufacture a few shots and that suits me.
Q. 36 holes tomorrow -- will you conserve your energy or go out and practice?
BRIAN DAVIS:  Practice now and then get an early night for a big day tomorrow.
Q.  So disappointed more than satisfaction?
BRIAN DAVIS:   One of those rounds which looked like 64 all day. The last four holes I didn't hit any really bad shots but before you know it you have dropped a couple of shots. Disappointing finish.

Someone will get to 11 or 12, so I have my work cut out. But I have two rounds to do it so if I keep playing like that and holing a few putts I will have a shot.
Q.  The course is holding up well?
BRIAN DAVIS:  Being first off the greens are good but I am surprised how well they have held up in this weather. In this amount of rain they do get chewed up but I was pleased with them. There are a lot of birdies out there but if you miss the fairway the rough is very wet so you have to keep it in play.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT