NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Jason Chamberlain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   To my left is Jason Chamberlain of Boise State, 31‑1.   Jason, you had an unseeded opponent.   Could you tell us a little bit about facing your opponent in the semi?   
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   Um, I wrestled him earlier in the year so I kinda got familiar with him a little bit early on.   This tournament is crazy.   Sometimes the seeds don't end up like they should be.   
So I knew what to expect, anybody out of that quarter to wrestle and it just happened to be him.   So I was ready to wrestle anybody.   
   
 Q.   Talk about last year when you took that Olympic red shirt, and did you wrestle Jordan Oliver at all?   
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   I didn't last year.   I did a few years ago, but it's been a while.   As far as last year, it was a normal red shirt year.   It wasn't an Olympic red shirt year, I was attending school and everything.   I wrestled as a true freshman, so I had that red shirt year to use.   
As far as the experience, I got to work with some really good coaches, particularly, Ivan Delchev at the Bronco Wrestling Club.   That experience helped me quite a bit.   The freestyle season is actually a little longer, so to have that extra training really helped.   
   
 Q.   In this match I think the key might have been the takedowns, and you looked sharp on your feet when it really mattered.   Talk a little bit about when you're wrestling well and why the takedown is such an important part of your arsenal.   
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   My whole life I have wrestled freestyle more than collegiate, so just the added‑‑ it's more focused on your feet, and getting takedowns is something we have always done really well.   
So just that my‑‑ I learned early on a basic rule of wrestling is nobody can take you down, nobody can hold you down, you win the match.   So I focused on my bottom and feet growing up, so that extra background helped.   
   
 Q.   Why do you red shirt?   Why didn't you finish in four?   
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   I just made a plan after I wrestled my true freshman year.   We looked ahead a few years and saw the 2012 was an Olympic year, so my coaches were planning on that, just to get that added experience.   Then after college I just want to continue on wrestling internationally.   So that one year of senior‑level experience would help me later on.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   I'm not sure that affected me too much.   I know people in my weight class probably don't overlook me.   As far as the media goes, it kinda helps when you're under looked a little bit and people don't notice you, just so you're out of that spotlight, where you get a lot of pressure built around you.   
But I know‑‑ I've always had the confidence that I should be No. 1, and even though I'm not ranked No. 1 or anything like that, it's still that‑‑ my mentality is I'm the No. 1 guy in my weight class.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   Yeah, I actually looked early on in the year at our schedule and saw that we wouldn't see each other until Nationals, so I've been looking forward to it.   I think everyone kind of expected that maybe we would make it to the finals.   So it's just something that I've been training for most of the year.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   My wife's family has cancer in their family, it runs in their family and it's called Lepadiformine Syndrome; and her dad died of brain cancer two years ago.   Her sister died of brain cancer.   So that's my gray shoelace, and her other sister died of breast cancer.   So that's kind of a wrestle for them.   They all died in the month of November.   It was just kind of to commemorate their lives and then I just decided to keep them there and just wrestle all year with those laces.   
   
 Q.   Jason, you have two children; is that correct?   
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   Just one.   
   
 Q.   One child.   How old?   Real quick background, does he or she understand what you're doing?   
JASON CHAMBERLAIN:   A daughter, and her name is Violet and she is 2.   She just turned 2 in February.   I'm not sure how she responds when I wrestle, but the last few years she has been going to wrestling practice with me almost on a daily basis.   
So she is familiar with the sport of wrestling and I think she understands what I do when I'm out.   But as far as cheering for me and stuff, I don't know if she is quite there yet.   
THE MODERATOR:   Jason, thank you.   Good luck in the final.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT