U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2015
Jake Knapp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jake, tell me about your 65.  You had an eagle on 14, your front side
JAKE KNAPP: Uh-huh.  The day got started off with a nice birdie on 10, played well all day.  I struck the ball really nicely, gave myself a lot of good chances, was lucky enough to have that one go in on 14, and then actually --
Q. What was the yardage and club on that?
JAKE KNAPP: I had 92 yards.  I hit 60-degree, and it landed about a yard short, took one hop and just plopped right in.  I was able to chip in for birdie on 17, which was also nice to see something go in.  But yeah, struck the ball really, really well, finished with a nice shot on 9, hit it inside a foot from 197 yards out.  Ball-striking was good, and looking forward to match play.
Q. Was there any stress factor having to wait overnight to finish your round?
JAKE KNAPP: A little bit.  Since I was playing so well, I just had a birdie on 6, I would have liked to keep playing.  I think 7 is a tough hole to start on, a 215-yard par-3.  The wind is definitely up a little bit this morning compared to last night, so starting off -- I hit the green on 7, but starting off with a three-putt wasn't exactly the way I wanted to finish my round.
Q. Being that it's your first U.S. Amateur, what were your expectations coming in?
JAKE KNAPP: The same as any event, really.  I want to win this week.  I think my game is definitely there.  I'm driving the ball well, which is something you need to do out here, and my wedges are really, really solid.  Getting some putts to fall is going to be the main thing, just keeping myself out of trouble.  But yeah, I think last week after I played at the Western, it's not out of the question for me to have a chance to win.
Q. Match play, different animal; how often have you been in match play events?
JAKE KNAPP: I've been in a decent amount.  I played in our state amateur every year, so I've been in match play there, and then I was just in the Western Amateur this past week, and then I played in match play at nationals.  I'm pretty used to it at this point.  I understand how to play and what I need to do or how I play best in match play.  It's a little different game plan than stroke play, but it's just -- still got to hit the shots.
Q. What maybe is the one thing you've learned that you have to have in match play that you don't have to worry about in stroke play?
JAKE KNAPP: That you have to have in stroke play and don't need to have --
Q. What is the main thing you've learned playing in match play that's going to help you here as we go on?
JAKE KNAPP: I think in match play the risk and reward shots change a little bit, so in match play, depending on what your opponent is doing, you're going to take some more risks.  I think.  If he puts it right down the middle and you're in trouble and the match isn't life or death on that hole, then normally you'll go for a little bit more risky shot, at least I do.  Because then also if I pull it off, it kind of gets in your opponent's head, as well.  Definitely playing aggressive for sure, especially around this course.  There's going to be some tough pins, but you can be aggressive if you have good angles off the tee.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT