WNBA ALL-STAR GAME 2019
July 27, 2019
A'ja Wilson
Kayla McBride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Team Wilson - 129, Team Delle Donne - 126   
 Q.  A'ja, what does it mean to win your first All-Star Game as a captain, and for both of you, what does it mean just this whole weekend and you guys hosting it in Vegas and how it's shown off what the Aces have here?  
A'JA WILSON: Yeah, to get my first win as a captain, it's super special.  That was just a huge -- we kind of cut it close.  We had to make it interesting.  But I mean, at the end of the day, I'm so proud off Erica Wheeler.  She really made us all so proud.  And that goes for her.  Like I couldn't have done it without any of them.  I'm glad I drafted them correctly, had a little fun, as well.   
But the city of Las Vegas really welcomed us this weekend, welcomed everyone, and it was just fun.  It was just great energy around the town.   
KAYLA McBRIDE: Yeah, so first congratulate Erica Wheeler on her story, and how she got to this point is so powerful.  It's the epitome of what we all fight for, and to have moments like that.  So it was really great to see her shine in that moment, and it's kind of crazy how everything works out and it comes full circle, and I think you saw that today.  And then also, city of Las Vegas, they really showed out.  We love playing here, along with Liz [Cambage] and Bill [Laimbeer].  They've embraced us since day one, and I think this was just a chance for us to really show out and really to get the same treatment that we've been getting.  Everybody, the fan base has been amazing in this community has embraced us and loved on us no matter what happened, and we're just trying to give it back to them in any way we can, and today was one of those days.   
 Q.  You guys both -- obviously you're No. 1 and No. 3, really high draft picks, and it seemed like looking out there everybody was getting a little emotional looking at Erica because they know this.  Especially as players who know how hard it is to make it in this league, knowing how much harder her journey was it, was it kind of emotional for you guys to see that?  
A'JA WILSON: Yeah, I was crying my eyes out.  It was just so real.  Like it's moments like that that people don't really see in our game, and that's what it's all about.  For those who don't know her story, I suggest you look her up.  She's someone that we all need to know, and it's 144 of us, and she's one of them, and it was just such a powerful, emotional moment.  But it was so great to have her kind of feel that, especially with all of the fans around her.  Ooh, that's a believer right there.  I'm about to get emotional right now.  That's a child of God right there.   
KAYLA McBRIDE: Yeah, definitely.  Just to see it all cultivate in one moment.  We know what the grind is like.  We know what it's like going overseas.  She's been grinding overseas.  I've been playing against her since I got into this league, so to see it kind of all cultivate and her have that moment and just kind of get emotional, we all felt that because we know what it's like to go through stuff, go through injuries, go through adversity, but it doesn't stop.  Like it doesn't stop.  You know, this game is a constant in all of our lives, it's bigger than basketball sometimes, and for her specifically, with her story, I mean, it's amazing, and God is definitely working today.  He showed up.  Yeah, just shout-out to Erica.  It's amazing.   
 Q.  Can either of you talk about obviously with your new adopted hometown here and just at least amongst the media, I don't know if we know anything what we're talking about, but a lot of people are saying, man, Vegas should be an annual thing or every other year and stuff like that to host the All-Star Game here.  Can you just talk about what the vibe felt like for you, the players?  Obviously you play all your home games here, but with All-Star Weekend and the vibe of it and how it compares to previous years being in Vegas?  
A'JA WILSON: Yeah, the vibe what you saw. It was electric.  It was positive.  And I think we should have it here every year.  I don't think I have a say in it, but just the feel of it.  Everyone kind of was here.  You have players that were not even in the competition at all here to support their teammates.  That's what it's all about.  We're all coming together and watching a game and playing a game that we love, and I just had so much fun.  Granted, I didn't have to travel far, but it was really nice to just have -- like [Kayla McBride] said, have people go through what we go through energy from the fans.   
KAYLA McBRIDE: No, I mean, like I said, Vegas has shown us so much love, and this is just kind of a way for us to give it back to women's basketball, the WNBA, the league.  These are All-Stars for a reason.  They've been the elite in the league, the best women's professional basketball league in the world.  This is the best of the best.  I've played all over the world, and I'm telling you it's the best of the best.  Just for Vegas to show us that much love and MGM and the league, I mean, it was amazing.  Everybody was having a great time.  But this is a moment we can kind of sit back and reflect on everything that's happened and who we are as people and as players and our journeys and just kind of celebrate that, and Vegas has allowed us to do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT