SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 18, 2010
Tania Elosegui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: 65 today. Great round. Tell us about it.  
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Yeah, very happy with the round. I played quite good, and my putting was great on the back nine. I had five birdies, so very happy.   
 MODERATOR: Great. So far this year in four starts you've had a few missed cuts. Probably not the way you wanted to be going this year. You came out today and are obviously a co-leader. Did something click today? What's changed?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Well, yeah, as you said, I had a lot of expectations of this year, my first year on the LPGA. I been working hard mentally and my putting, because I was struggling a little bit with my putting at the beginning of the season.   
 So I think my putting is much better now. Obviously this round give me some confidence, so I hope I'm gonna keep playing the way I played today.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Can you do the birdies and bogeys to start?  
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Yeah. I birdie 5, 9, 13, 14, 15, 18, and 10. I forgot 10. So 5, 9, 19, 13, 14, 15, 18, and yeah, I bogey 6.   
  
  Q. Go through 5, for instance. What did you hit in there? How far was your putt?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: A gimme.   
  
  Q. What did you hit?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: 58 degree sand wedge.   
  
  Q. What happened on 6? You want to just go through each of those holes?  
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Okay. The breeze was a little bit into No. 6, and I thought it would carry with an (indiscernible) iron to the pin, but I was short. That putt was quite tricky with like a mound in between me and the pin. So didn't hit a good first putt, and then 3-putted.   
 And then 9, I was back of the green in a thick, thick rough. I hit a very good shots on there with a very good chip with a big rough. My birdie putt was a meter, meter (indiscernible).   
 And then 10, holed another very good putt from back left of the pin downhill right to left. It was maybe five, six meters.   
 13, was gimme again. I hit a wedge.   
 14 was a meter from the pin. Great 4-iron into the wind.   
 15, I hole a very good putt from left of the pin. That one was long. Maybe eight, nine meters.   
 And then 18, 2-putted, even if the first putt was not a good -- little bit shy.  
  
  Q. Is there something about this course that sort of fits your game?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Not really. (Laughter.) Not really. Well, it's not a links course, but it's quite a lengthy golf course.   
 Normally I don't really like links golf courses, but I guess I've been working on this and knowing how to hit low shots into the wind. So I guess something is working.   
  
  Q. So when you first came here and saw the course then, did you think that this wasn't gonna be a good week for you because it is a links-style course?  
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: You try not to think that. You always, Okay, I'm gonna do the best I can and give it 100%.   
 Today the wind was not as strong as yesterday, so I think the course was a little bit easier for us today.   
 But the greens are getting firm, and the fairways, too.   
  
  Q. Do you sense that your game is reaching the point where you might be able to put together another good round tomorrow? Has it been improving as the year has gone on?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Yeah, I mean, it's been improving. Obviously, as I said before, all the hard work on my putting is paying off. That's a very important part of the game. Like if you can putt, even if you miss greens or you miss fairways, you can still make pars. I was missing that.   
 Right now I'm quite confident with my putting, and all I have to do is keep working on my mental stuff and commit to every shot. That's what I'm trying to do.  
  
  Q. The greens kind of have some undulation and hills. Were you just reading the greens well today?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: They're difficult to read. They're difficult to read, but I think the key point today for me is like I was quite confident on the short putts - like meter, meter and a half, two meters - and I make two very good up-and-downs on the first two holes. That got me going.   
  
  Q. And I know you played the European tour last year. Is this your first year on the LPGA Tour?  
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Yeah, I was a rookie last year on LPGA, but I didn't play any tournaments, just one in Arkansas.   
 So, yeah, this is my first year here. I'm still playing on the LET, too. I played two events. I mean, these past four weeks I play two tournaments over there, but I'm mainly playing LPGA this year.  
  
  Q. I know you've won over there. Can you draw on that experience? You're probably gonna be at the top of the leaderboard or near the top going into tomorrow. Can you draw on some of your success over there for the rest of this weekend?  
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Yeah, so every time you go out on the golf course you can take out some experience. So obviously like winning over there and being at the top of the leaderboard in a lot of tournaments in Europe help me.   
 Like I think I'm more experienced than some of the rookies that are just starting to play in the LPGA this year.   
 But that doesn't mean anything really. I mean...  
  
  Q. Do you have mixed emotions? You're playing two tours. Is there a reason you're doing that?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: No, not really. But the schedule in the LPGA this year was not like, I don't know, 11 tournaments in a row. So we had some week off. We had four weeks off.   
 Well, I had four weeks off this past month, so I could go to Europe and play tournaments over there and keep practicing and playing.   
 Because otherwise, if you stop for a month without playing, it's like a lot of time. So it's good that European golf, we can go and play over there, too.   
  
  Q. What happened to Spain in the World Cup?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: (Laughter.) I saw the first half. Yeah. But it's always the same story, so...  
 It's always the same. (Laughter.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT