NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 5, 2014
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat - 95
      San Antonio Spurs - 110 
   
 Q.   First, the obvious.   How are you feeling?  
    LeBRON JAMES:   I'm feeling better than I did when I came off the floor.   So, doing better.  
   
 Q.   You were going to try to give it a go?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   I was going to try to give it a go and Spo said no.   It sucks at this point in time in the season.   You know, after I made that layup we was down two and, you know, as well as they played we still had a chance.   You know, after I came out of the game, they kinda took off.   And it was frustrating sitting out and not be able to help our team.   
   
 Q.   Is it just frustration?   Is it anger?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   Yeah, it's both.   I mean, it's frustration and anger, but at the same time it's something that you try to prevent, you try to control.   I mean, I got all the fluids I need to get, I do my normal routine I've done and it was inevitable for me tonight, throughout the conditions, you know, out there on the floor.   I lost all the fluids that I was putting in in the last couple of days out there on the floor.   
 It sucks not being out there for your team, especially at this point in the season.   
 Q.   You tried to move, just saw the legs buckle on the baseline, how much pain were you in?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   The best option for me to do was not to move.   I tried and any little step or nudge, it would get worse.   It would lock up worse and my muscles spasmed 10 out of 10.   Best thing for me to do was just not to move, and, you know, it was frustrating.   
   
 Q.   Was it just the left leg or was there more?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   Well, no, it was the whole left leg, damn near the whole left side.   I was losing a lot throughout the game.   It was extremely hot in the building, you know, both teams, fans, everybody could feel it.   I was the one that had to take the shot.   
   
 Q.   What did you try and do at halftime?   Did you have any idea how much fluid you tried to get in you?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   Drank a lot at halftime, even changed my uniform, just tried to get the sweat up off of you.   Our training staff tried to do the best they could by giving us ice bags and cold towels on timeouts, keep us dry.   
    It was an unusual circumstance, I never played in a building like that, it's been a while, like high school game or CYO and everybody is sitting on top and you feel good being in a building like that.   
    But, you know, at the end of the day, it's no discredit for what they did.   They played extremely well.   They moved the ball extremely well.   I think they had 30 assists.   You know, even from the turnovers both teams were committing, uncharacteristic of both teams, they played extremely well.   
   
 Q.   You have nearly three full days now before you have to play again, how thankful are you that you have the extra day in between?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   I need it, I need it, I need it.   We're going to start tonight, continue to get the fluids in me and get me ready for Sunday.   Thankful for the fact that I can get on it tonight, and put myself in a position where I can be out there for my team for the long haul.   And sitting on the sideline, you know, if I'm not in foul trouble, is not good for us and not good for me.   Look forward to Game 2 and go from there.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT