NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 29, 2014
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   One night and move on to the night that could be the one that you guys need to get back to where you want to go?   
LeBRON JAMES:   Well, we'll know tomorrow night.   Obviously, we learn from our mistakes that we had last night and get better from it and apply it to the next game.  
   
 Q.   How would you assess your mood the day after?   Frustrated?   Angry?   You never got into a rhythm.   Obviously, you've never been in a situation like that in a playoff game.   Then there was all the extracurricular stuff as well with Lance.   
LeBRON JAMES:   It was frustrating last night, but I'm good now.   Yesterday is old news.   Today is a new opportunity, and tomorrow is another opportunity to get better.   
So for me, I move on.   That's why I'm able to stay who I am and be able to be better the next day.  
   
 Q.   Nice short practice today.   There's not much that needs to be said?   
LeBRON JAMES:   [Indiscernible].   That's what the playoffs are all about.  
   
 Q.   Do you think Lance will pull any of those antics tomorrow night?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I don't know.   Going into the game, I don't worry about his antics.   I'm just trying to win the game.  
   
 Q.   Is it encouraging that you missed so much of the game, you were in foul trouble, and it took a great performance by Paul George, and you guys were still within a basket of winning that game?   
LeBRON JAMES:   No, it's not encouraging when you lose.   Ain't no moral victories for us.   We win or we lose.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   You obviously couldn't do much about this, not being in the game much, but in general, have you sensed lack of aggressiveness as a team for a reason why you didn't get to the free‑throw line more?   Eight free throws unusually low for you guys.   Or were there some other factors that might have led to it?   
LeBRON JAMES:   No.   I mean, we just didn't get to the free‑throw line.   We were aggressive last night.   We shot the ball extremely well as well.   We just didn't get to the line.  
   
 Q.   Is it going to be one period to adjust?   Last night's game plan was thrown out the window after five or six minutes.   
LeBRON JAMES:   We're still making adjustments.   We're going to get better every game.   I felt like we played well enough to win last night.   As a team, we played well enough and gave ourselves a chance to win that game.   
They made some big shots.   Paul George made some big shots, but we stuck into it.   We will learn from what we did last night and get better for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   They were running fewer pick‑and‑rolls last couple of games, more post‑ups.   Is that something you guys are forcing them to change, or are they coming into games with a different approach?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I think both teams are making adjustments on the fly, seeing ways they can exploit the defense.   
It's the two best teams in the Eastern Conference for a reason.   They're going to make more adjustments.   We're going to make more adjustments, and you go from there.   
   
  
  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT