NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LAKERS VS. NUGGETS
September 26, 2020
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Los Angeles Lakers 117, Denver Nuggets 107
 Q. As the confetti fell on the court, you were sitting on the ground.  Can you share what was going through your mind?
 LeBRON JAMES:   Yeah, just, one, getting my breath back underneath me after a hard-fought series against one of most well-coached team I've ever played against in the postseason, one of the most respected teams I've played against. Obviously, you guys know how much I love Mike Malone.  He's incredible.  He's the reason why that team is so damn good.  So I was thinking about that.
 I was also thinking about some of my teammates who this is their first appearance to the Finals.  Obviously, AD had a lot on my thought process.  This is the reason why I wanted to be a teammate of his and why I brought him here.  I wanted him to see things that he had not seen before in this league.  To be able to come through for him meant a lot for me personally.
 Then I started thinking about the next opponent. Boston had a few moments in my head.  Miami had a few moments in my head as well.  How challenging that's going to be, whoever wins that series.
 Then I just started thinking about my journey as well.  All that was just going through my mind as the confetti was on the floor, was coming down, landing on my shoulder and things of that nature.  So hopefully that was a good description.
 Q. Frank said he felt like you played with a chip on your shoulder all year.  What does it mean to this have moment after everything you went through with your first year with the Lakers and after every single obstacle you kept hitting this season and yet you still end up where you were trying to get?
 LeBRON JAMES:   For me personally, the job is not done.  But it's great to hit moments throughout the course of a journey and appreciate that.  This is all part of the process, but the job is not done for me personally.
 For us as a franchise, I'm extremely proud to be a part of this franchise getting back to where it belongs, and that's playing for championships and competing for championships and representing the Western Conference in the championships.
 This is what I came here for. I heard all the conversations and everything that was said about why did I decide to come to L.A -- the reason I came to L.A., it was not about basketball.  All those conversations, just naysayers and things of that nature.  I understood that, with the season I had last year and my injury, it just gave them more sticks and more wood to throw in the fire to continue to say the things that they would say about me.  But it never stopped my journey and never stopped my mindset and never stopped by goa.
 I'm happy, like I said, and proud of this organization and proud of my teammates and I'm proud of the coaching staff, the front office and our ownership as well at this very moment today.
 Q. You mentioned getting the Lakers back to the Finals.  Last time they got there, Game 6 Western Conference Finals, 2010, Kobe goes for 37, hits all those dagger jumpers in the fourth.  How do you process your emotions all year about Kobe, and as this run has continued, wearing the purple and gold, how that's all sat in your mind?
 LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, every time you put on purple and gold, you think about his legacy.  You think about him and about what he meant to this franchise for 20-plus years, and what he stood for both on the floor and off the floor.  What he demanded out of his teammates and what he demanded out of himself. We have some similarities in that sense.
 Our games are different, but as far as our mindset and our drive to want to be the best and our drive to not lose -- sometimes you're going to lose games, but that drive to always want to be victorious, it stops you from sleeping.  And sometimes you put certain things -- you sacrifice a lot of things.  You sacrifice your family at times because you're so driven to be so great that other things fall by the wayside at times.
 So I understand that.  I'm one of the few that can understand the mindset that he played with and the journey from high school to the NBA.
 It's just a thing that I carry with me, like I said, every time I decide at one point in that locker room before the game when I throw that jersey on.
 Q. Do you find yourself savoring these moments more than when you were younger?
 LeBRON JAMES:   I don't, unfortunately.  I wish I did.  They happen so fast and my mind is still so locked in on the journey that it's hard for me to take in and appreciate what we just accomplished.
 Just how I've always been. I always say that when I'm done playing the game, hopefully I look back on it and enjoy it -- and hopefully I will.  Hopefully I can, because I don't think I enjoy it enough when I'm in it because I'm so engulfed in the process until the final call.
 But I'm so damn proud of this team and where we are right now up until this day.
 Q. The nature of your accomplishments has had you compared to the greats of the game for a long time, but you've insisted, "I'm my own guy and it's my own story."  What about the fact that you didn't just stay on the first team you played with, first city; you go to Miami, you go to L.A.  What has that meant to you to blaze your own trail as a superstar or whatever?
 LeBRON JAMES:   I don't know, I've never looked at it that way.  I've never said, OK, I want to cast myself as a superstar or whatever the case may be.  I just want to travel my own journey, because it is my journey. I've appreciated everything that's happened along the way.  I mean, throughout -- the ups, the downs, the ups on the court, the downs on the court, the wins and losses.
 But I've been able to, I guess as Frank Sinatra would say, I did it my way.  At the end of the day and at the end of my career, I just hope that I inspire enough people to want to play the game the right way, and have that respect from all the opponents that I played against, all the teams that I played against and the organizations that I play for.  Because at the end of the day, I mean, that's all you have, is your respect.
 Q. The Finals have been basically the LeBron James Invitational for the last decade.  What were you doing at this time last year and how did that affect your continued determination to get back here?
 LeBRON JAMES:   Well, it all depends what game you were talking about.  There were a couple games where I was at home.  There was one or two games where I was in Cabo and a couple games where I was at a hookah lounge during the Finals last year.  That's the truth.  I wasn't smoking hookah, but I was there.
 Q. Was the game on or no?
 LeBRON JAMES:   Absolutely.  I wouldn't have went.  The game was on in Cabo, the game was on in my house and at the hookah lounge.  I watched every single minute of the games until they stopped.  I actually watched every single postseason game last year.  I think I told David that; I watched every single postseason game.
 Part of me, I'm just a fan of the game.  I love the sport.  I love the competitive nature.  I love the playoffs.
 And then, also, of saying like, oh, I wish I was in this moment, what would I have done at that moment? What play would I have made in that moment if I was out there?
 So yes, I didn't miss a game.  I didn't miss one game.  Even on vacation, I didn't miss a game.  My wife didn't like it, but she'll be OK (smiling).
 Q. In the fourth quarter, where is your head at in terms of deciding this thing is not going to a Game 6?
 LeBRON JAMES:   I've always had the mindset that in a close-out game for me personally, I'm just as desperate as the team that we are trying to close out.  I don't want to play another game.  And if we are in a position where we can win that game, that's just my mindset.
 Does it always go that route?  No, because I don't believe I'm undefeated.  I'm not undefeated in close-out games.  My mindset is that I do not -- if we have played well enough and we are in the fourth quarter and we have a chance to win, I do not want to play another game.  I mean, I love the game, but I do not want to play another game.  That's always been my mindset.  I want to be just as desperate as my opponent, just as desperate as the other team, the player that I'm lined up against, the coaching staff that's on the other side.  It's just who I am.  It's just a mindset I'm able to link into at that very moment.
 Q. LeBron, you said that you thought about AD and wanting to show him something that he has never seen before.  What has he meant to you this season?  Obviously, you guys are very close, but to go through this year with him, how have you needed him?
 LeBRON JAMES:   I guess it was a very, very, very, very long time ago, when I was 27, like a long-ass time ago when I was 27 in this league.  I just wanted to put myself kind of in his position.  Sometimes what I would be thinking at that age and if I was with someone in the later stage of their career, I just don't want to let them down.  And I'm not even talking on the floor, because there's things that sometimes they go in, they don't go in.
 But as far as, I don't want to say a role model, but someone that holds myself to a higher standard as far as character.  I don't want to let them down.  And then, it's funny because it's kind of rubbed off on me as well because he doesn't want to let me down.
 I don't know, you've seen the movie Step Brothers before, right?  Well, there it is.
 Q. Are you Will Ferrell or?
 LeBRON JAMES:   Yeah, I'm Will Ferrell, for sure.  I get on his nerves a lot, for sure.  I go in and mess with his drums and he's not watching -- yeah, that's me.  I get on his nerves a lot.
 Q. Alex Caruso, how has he grown and how much resolve has he shown?
 LeBRON JAMES:   I think Alex Caruso is a true definition of when opportunity meets preparation.  He's been preparing for this moment for a long time and he just needed opportunity.
 Luke [Walton] gave him an opportunity last year, and now Coach Vogel and our coaching staff are giving him an opportunity on a bigger stage.  He's just taking full advantage of that and just full stride.  He's just gotten better and better every single minute he's on the floor.
 He's still learning.  Every game is still a learning experience for him because he's so new to the NBA.  He played a lot of his minutes over the course of his early stages in the G League. But first time I saw him, and seeing him in some of our practices, it wasn't the sneaky athleticism.  It was the way that he defended and how cerebral he played the game.
 I gravitate toward players like that right away, because the game, everybody talks about the physical side and how high you can jump and how fast you can run and all those things.  But the mental side is what gets you to the next level.  You know, I saw that from A.C. and he continues to learn.  He's just been great for us.
 Q. Your track record speaks for itself, and there's a lot of talent and experience with your teammates.  Given this is Frank's first year what jumped out of how he managed everything, not just this group, but all the unique challenges this year?
 LeBRON JAMES:   He's been great.  He's been unbelievable.  I mean, we've faced, it's been a crazy obstacle course for our franchise this whole year.  I'm not going to sit here and give all the details, but you guys, everyone can go back and just see from the start of the season all the way up until now what we've gone through as a team.  He's been able to manage it the whole time.  Bringing in guys, losing guys.  He's just always been the anchor, and our coaching staff has been right behind him.  I can't say anything more than that.
 Just happy to be on the floor to kind of be his coach on the floor and just command to my teammates the same message that he's given to me and be an extension of his mind.  It's been great.
 Q. In the postgame ceremony, you said how tough it is to get to the Finals.  You've now done it nine times over the last 10 years.  How have you been able to have that type of longevity, and how did this ceremony feel this year without fans?
 LeBRON JAMES:   One, I've taken care of my body.  I've been available to my teammates.  That's one.  I sleep.  I try to get as much sleep as I can.  I think there's no better recovery than sleep.  And then I've never cheated the game as well.  I've put so much work into my craft, so much work into the game.  I think you add on to the fact that I've played with some great teammates and some great coaching staffs, from T-Lue and his coaching staff to Erik Spoelstra and his coaching staff, and now this coaching staff with Frank Vogel.
 I'm blessed.  I'm truly blessed.  They have all allowed me to be me.  They have allowed me to go out and do the things that I do on the floor.  Use my mind, my play and be able to command my teammates the way I do.  It's put me in position to be able to, like you said, be in the Finals nine out of 10 years.
 To answer your second question, everything is different.  It's 2020.  Nothing feels the same.  Everything is different.  So the ceremony is different.  The one thing I can say, I wish we were in Staples Center tonight with our fans, with our Laker faithful, because they deserve this as much as we do because they went through the last so many years of not being in a postseason run, feeling like their franchise would never get back to this moment.  But they continued to stay faithful.  It would have been great to celebrate with them tonight.
 So hopefully we can continue to give them something to smile about in the next round, as well. That's what our mindset is.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT