NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Does this ever get old for you?
LEBRON JAMES:   Does it ever get old?   It's great being here, man, and it's nice to see all your fellow guys around the league, both East and West.   I'm honored to be here once again and excited to be part of this. 

Q.   Is this a two‑team race in the East?
LEBRON JAMES:   This is more than a two‑team race.   There's a lot of good teams in the Eastern Conference.   It's been a slow start for us as a whole, but there's so many good teams you can't just count on us and one other team.   I respect every team we go against. 
It's not just trying to discount anybody.   Toronto has been playing some good basketball as of late, especially after the trade.   They brought in some really, really key components coming off the bench and they have a good team. 

Q.   Can you elaborate on your Four Horsemen on Mount Rushmore?
LEBRON JAMES:   Can I elaborate on it? 

Q.   Yeah, like did you consider putting anybody else up there?
LEBRON JAMES:   Yeah, Kareem.

Q.   Anybody else?
LEBRON JAMES:   Kareem and Kobe.   Those are two guys that came to my mind.   It's hard to knock anybody off.   I mean, there needs to be another mountain built.   There's too many guys.   I definitely was thinking about Kobe as a top four of all time, thinking about Kareem for sure.   I mean, there's so many greats that played this game. 

Q.   Aside from KD, who else do you look at regarding their progress?
LEBRON JAMES:   Carmelo, Blake, Paul George, Kyrie Irving, Chris Paul, to name a few. 

Q.   And do you text those guys?
LEBRON JAMES:   If they have one of those monster games, for sure.   For sure, I definitely, I had to send out an Instagram post when Melo put up that Madison Square Garden record 62.   That was pretty exciting.

Q.   Does that stuff motivate you?
LEBRON JAMES:   Well, it should.   It should.   As a competitor and as a basketball player you can't wait for your next game to see if you may have one of those hot hands or one of those zones. 

Q.   Have you thought about free agency after this season?
LEBRON JAMES:   No, I haven't thought about it. 

Q.   The question always comes up, why aren't you in the dunk contest.   We hear that people would be hanging from the rafters to watch you. 
LEBRON JAMES:   That's never come up as a question.   I honestly thought about it a few times, but I didn't give no second guess about it. 

Q.   With all the fanfare at the All‑Star weekend, who is the biggest celebrity ever met in your life, entertainment, whatever?
LEBRON JAMES:   I don't know.   I've met so many greats.   I've had the pleasure of meeting Jay‑Z when I was 16 years old and now he's like a big brother of mine.   I talk to him on a daily basis or weekly basis, you know, that's pretty cool. 

Q.   What do you think about the local kid, Anthony Davis, just 20 years old, on this stage, just what do you think about his game?
LEBRON JAMES:   I think he deserves to be here.   20 plus, 10 plus, league leading three and a half plus blocks.   Those are All‑Star caliber numbers.   And he's going to continue to get better and better.   I mean, every game you can see him continue to improve.   And as long as he stays healthy, I think that's for all of us we all stay healthy, we can all do special things.   But I think New Orleans has a great one in Anthony Davis. 

Q.   How sick are you of being asked about the rivalry with Kevin Durant?
LEBRON JAMES:   How sick am I?   I don't mind it.   I mean, you're always going to be linked to somebody.   Early in my career I was linked to Kobe.   And now I'm linked to KD.   You are always going to be linked to somebody.   And it's how you handle it.   I don't really get caught up into it too much.

Q.   Does it motivate you?
LEBRON JAMES:   Does it motivate me to what? 

Q.   To being compared to him?
LEBRON JAMES:   I don't think I'm compared to him.   They don't compare me to KD, they just talk about the two best players in the game and which one is better, which one can score better, who is the MVP, who is going to win the next championship.   But they don't ever compare our games too much, we're two different players.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT