NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 18, 2013
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio Spurs - 100
  Miami Heat - 103 
   
 Q.   LeBron, you lost your headband early in the fourth quarter.   You and the team both responded with a big run.   Can you talk about how that moment might have energized the team from that point.   
LeBRON JAMES:   We just played with a lot of energy.   We defended at a higher level and allowed us to get back into the game.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, what do you remember about that play?   And I know it's not a big deal, it's your headband.   What do you remember about that play and your decision to not go with it from then on?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I don't even remember the play much.   I was just focused on the job, the task at hand, and just trying to be aggressive, just trying to figure out ways I could help the team get back into the game.   And you know, I guess the headband was the least of my worries at that point.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, Chris Bosh said after the game this was maybe the best Finals game he's ever seen in person or on TV, whatever.   Put it in perspective how exciting this game was, and how dramatic was it among games you've played in and all that.   
LeBRON JAMES:   It was by far the best game I've ever been a part of.   The ups and downs, the roller coaster, the emotions, good and bad throughout the whole game.   To be a part of something like this is something you would never be able to recreate once you're done playing the game.   And I'm blessed to be a part of something like this.   And I'm happy about the way we dug down and was able to get a win.   It didn't look like we could muster up at some point in the game.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, Chris said in the locker room that he saw the yellow tape going around the arena and it quote "pissed him off."   Did you notice that?   And just go through your emotions in the last few minutes of the game.   
LeBRON JAMES:   Yeah, I noticed it.   It kind of did the same to all of us.   There's a few guys in the locker room that talked about it.   We seen the championship board already out there, the yellow tape.   And you know, that's why you play the game, to the final buzzer.   And that's what we did tonight.   We gave it everything that we had and more.   And to come out with a win like that, it makes it even more greater, when you're able to, I guess, just will everything that you have as individuals for a team and have a game like this.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, you made the three that got it within two and then on the possession Ray‑‑ you missed the first three.   When Chris got the rebound, you were screaming for the ball.   You were jumping.   Your arms were up in the air.   Did you think Ray was going to take the shot or did you want to take that shot?   
LeBRON JAMES:   If it's not me taking the shot, I have no problem with Ray take that shot, man.   He's got ice water in his veins.   Ray can‑‑ like I said, Ray can be 0‑for‑99 in a game and if he get an open look late in the game, it's going down.   That's just the confidence he have in himself.   It's the preparation that he prepares for every game.   It's the confidence that we have in him.   We seen it before.   We seen it before.   
We're happy to have him on our side.   And this is the reason why we wanted him in games like this.   
   
 Q.   Everybody looked tired down the stretch.   What role did fatigue play in this game?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, fatigue is a part of the game.   You've got two teams that's fighting for an NBA championship.   Not only are they going all the way taking the tank all the way down to E, they're also using their reserve tank.   
But I don't think fatigue played a part in the game.   I think both teams had a will to win.   We just made one more play at the end of the day.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, you had been on the other end of a lot of Ray's threes in the past.   Talk about what you remember when you guys acquired him.   And also how much recruiting did you do to try to get him here?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I did a lot.   I called him, texted him.   I just knew what he could bring to our team.   Just like you said, I've been on the other end of seeing him get them feet down, putting them stupid two fingers after he make the shot.   Not so stupid anymore now that he's my teammate; I love it.   
He's big‑time.   He's big‑time.   We love‑‑ we're so happy to have him, man.   He creates so much for our team.   And to have someone as dangerous as that on our roster, man, it means so much.   
   
 Q.   What exactly do you recall from that play, the broken play?   
LeBRON JAMES:   Well, I mean, it wasn't too much of a broken play.   We ran a great set.   I came over, got a great look.   CB made some unbelievable plays tonight.   He got the offensive rebound.   Hit Ray, and once Ray got them feet down, I seen it in the air and I was like "It's going in.   It got a chance.   It's going in."   And he drained it.   
Just gave us another life.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, I don't think maybe even you would admit we have not seen that great team we saw in the regular season yet, but I know you have a great opponent here.   Do you feel like you are at all lucky or fortunate that you've made it this far to a Game 7 with a chance to win on your home court with the way that you've played?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I think luck plays a part, of course.   But at the end of the day, we're out there busting our tails to make‑‑ to put ourself in a position to have a little luck.   But at the end of the day we have a Game 7 on our floor to win the NBA championship.   
So I really don't care how the hell we done played so far.   (Laughing).   We could have played the worst six games of our lives, but we got a Game 7 on our floor.   So Thursday is for all the marbles.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, in the third quarter I think you were 3‑for‑11.   The team was down by 13 points.   You're playing a team with a championship pedigree.   Talk about what happened just inside of you and the will that you drew upon to turn that thing around.   Take us inside what's that's like.   
LeBRON JAMES:   I was struggling shooting the ball.   We were struggling.   And they took a commanding 12‑point lead to start the fourth.   After we came out before we entered the ball, I basically just told myself, give it all I got.   If we go down losing, I'm going to go down with no bullets.   I'm going all out.   I can be satisfied with the results.   
That's exactly what I did.   I just tried to play both sides of the floor on a high‑intense level until I had no more left in the tank.   Looked at Spo a few times.   Told him I need a timeout, so I can get a rest.   And just go back on the floor and try to make plays happen.   Just try to do whatever it takes for our team to win, man.   And that's what it's about.   
   
 Q.   What made it the greatest game that you've ever been a part of?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I just think the emotions.   The emotions, the ups and downs, us being up, us being down.   I think more than anything just our mental toughness.   Our mental toughness to make it almost look like the game was out of our hands, and to come through victorious.   And to be a part of something like this, like I said, once you're done playing this game, you would never be able to recreate a feeling like I had, we had, the fans had, you guys had, people at home.   Never be able to recreate that.   I'm just blessed I could be a part of such an unbelievable moment.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, you just said that fourth quarter you got into this kind of desperation mode.   What do you guys need to do to start the same thing quarter No. 1 for Game 7, the same intensity?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I thought we did a better job in quarter one today of coming out with a sense of urgency.   I think Tim Duncan, he was amazing in the first quarter.   They made some tough shots.   But we still had a two‑point lead.   
It was the second quarter that really killed us.   We got outscored by eight in that quarter.   And in the third quarter we got outscored by four.   
If we come out ‑‑ at the end of the day, it's the last game of the season.   It's the last game of the season.   You have to muster up all the energy that you might have.   It's not about X's and O's at this point.   They know what we're running.   We know what they're running.   We know their personnel.   They know our personnel.   It's about getting stops defensively, staying in it mentally, not turning the ball over, and making a few shots.   
The best team will be crowned Thursday night.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT