NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 9, 2013
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio Spurs - 84
  |Miami Heat - 103 
   
 Q.   LeBron, you had that great block on Tiago Splitter.   Can you talk about the play and how you think it affected the game.   
LeBRON JAMES:   Just wanted to, I guess, make an impact some way.   Offensively it was a struggle for me; couldn't make a shot, missed lay‑ups.   Some things I'm accustomed to making.   So I just wanted to make some plays and try to help our team.   And I was able to protect the rim on that one.   
Basically I told myself, you'll end up on Sports Center where you're going to get dunked on or you're going to get a block.   Luckily I was on the good side of the Top Ten and the Not So Top Ten.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, you spoke after Game 1 about distributing confidence to your teammates, the balance.   You have a game today where you got five guys in double figures.   A couple of guys with nine points.   Does this maybe show a little bit more of why when people say, why weren't you more assertive, and you said, "because of what we have"?   And how comforting was it, while you were struggling to a degree, to have that kind of support system?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I already know what we have here.   Like I said, I don't really read into it of what people want more of me or whatever the case may be.   I will continue to find my shooters, if they're open.   And I will continue to try to put pressure on the defense.   If I draw two, I'll find my shooters.   I have confidence they're going to knock them down.   They did that tonight.   Ray, Mike Miller, Rio made big plays after big plays for us.   
   
 Q.   You talked about how in that moment you were thinking about, it's going to be a Top Ten play either way.   Is the game really that slow for you where in the time Tony makes a pocket pass and Tiago takes one dribble, you can slow the game down that much where you know that one way or another something really good or really bad is going to happen?   
LeBRON JAMES:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   I was, I guess, the last line of defense.   I just pride myself on that side of the floor, honestly.   It didn't matter to me.   I was going to try to protect the rim the best way I could.   
Like I said, I was fortunate enough that I was able to make a big play for us.   We were able to go down the other end and I think Ray hit a three after that, I believe.   
Just being on both sides of the floor, being able to make an impact is what it's all about.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, you've talked about how Mario has been aggressive on the pick‑and‑rolls especially and gone to the basket in a couple of instances today, ending up with and‑one situations.   And then he said he had a conversation with you where he said basically let's go for the kill here.   Can you recount that conversation?   
LeBRON JAMES:   Rio, he has to play big for us in multiple facets.   I think that especially defensively he's guarding arguably the best point guard in the league.   But I think he also has to make Tony work on the defensive end.   He can't be passive.   He has to attack the paint.   He has to shoot his shots when he has them.   
We started to get a little flow, and I started to see him start to play really well, especially coming off pick‑and‑rolls.   We ran a lot of pick‑and‑rolls between the two of us, and I told him to keep attacking and let's try to push this lead up and go for the kill.   And we were able to do that.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, after all the focus on your Game 1, what you did do or didn't do, what your boxscore looked like, your numbers aren't that radically different from Game 1.   You lose Game 1 by four and win this by 19.   What conclusion should we draw out of that?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I don't know.   Whatever conclusion you want.   It's a 1‑1 series.   That's the only conclusion I know.   We look forward to Game 3.   
   
 Q.   Do you come in knowing that if you play the same style of game, guys are making shots and the ball is getting distributed, that it's going to go your way more often than not?   
LeBRON JAMES:   What I do know is sharing the ball is contagious, and it allows everyone to feel involved in the offense.   For me personally, I know I attract a lot of attention.   This team has been set up the right way where when I do attract attention, we have guys that can make plays.   
Tonight was another case of that.   They packed the paint on me.   I seen two bodies, unless I was in transition when I missed a couple of bunnies.   But when I felt like‑‑ my shooters just need a little bit of room.   Mike showed that, Ray showed that and Rio showed that tonight.   
   
 Q.   On a night like this when you're not as efficient as you normally are and you're not as in rhythm and not even getting to the free‑throw line, take us into your mindset as you try to kind of figure out the game and get your own game going, how you did that.   
LeBRON JAMES:   Now offensively if I'm not in the rhythm, you need to make a couple of plays to make an impact.   That's what you're on the floor for.   You need to do it on both sides of the floor, however you can do it.   I think what helped me was the late third quarter pocket pass from Rio, I was able to get a lay‑up.   Then I came out in the fourth, I was able to make an elbow jumper.   And then I made some plays defensively to try to help.   I made some defensive rebounds.   I was able to get the block on Tiago, and then my shooters finished some shots I was able to get them in transition.   
You know, that's just part of my game.   When I'm not scoring or I'm not as efficient offensively where I feel like I'm missing some shots, I just figure out ways that I can still help the team, even if it's not scoring as much.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel you were controlling the game even at that point before you kind of got a little rhythm?   
LeBRON JAMES:   Well, honestly for me, when I was struggling offensively, my teammates continue to keep it in range.   And we even had a lead at one point.   Especially late in the second quarter when we made that run and I was struggling a little bit.   
So I think Rio more than anybody kept us aggressive, him getting into the paint, him getting those and‑ones and making a couple of threes.   It allowed me to sit back and wait for my time.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, one of your shooters, Mike Miller, seemed to be kind of everywhere defensively, had that little flip pass also over to you.   How much sort of a refreshing boost has he been?   Because he seems to have a whole lot of energy.   
LeBRON JAMES:   We want him on the floor.   As teammates, we want him on the floor.   We know what he brings.   He's a 6'7", 6'8" two guard/small forward that can shoot the ball from anywhere and can rebound at a high clip.   With the lineup we had in the late third to the fourth, me, Rio, Ray, Bird and Mike it spreads the floor.   It spreads the floor for our attackers.   
When Mike gets the ball‑‑ our shooters got the fluorescent light on our team.   They're not even allowed to pass.   When Ray and Mike get the ball, they have to shoot it.   No matter how close the defenders are, they have to shoot it.   When you have that leeway and that confidence, you just have to let it go.   
   
 Q.   You talked about the rosters of both teams and how they're built to complement the Big Threes.   How much is that supporting cast for both sides going to impact this series moving forward?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, it's key.   The Big Three I guess on both sides.   You know, you can kind of rely on them at all times.   But I think the supporting cast is really why both teams are here.   They've been making an impact all year long, and they feel like their supporting cast is better.   We feel like our supporting cast is better.   It's who goes out and do it each and every night to help seal wins.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, what is your take on the 2‑3‑2 format?   And do you look at it as no big deal now playing three straight in San Antonio?   Because you guys historically have been so good on the road.   
LeBRON JAMES:   I really don't‑‑ it doesn't matter.   Two best teams in the NBA at this point.   Both teams have won and can win on each other's floor.   So it's not a biggie.   
   
 Q.   I know how much you love discussing injuries, but you had a wrap on your knee tonight that was noticeable.   Is that a new thing?   
LeBRON JAMES:   No.   I got a floor burn in Game 1.   Instead of the band‑aid, I wrapped it so the band‑aid won't fall off.   
   
 Q.   It's a condition, not an injury?   
LeBRON JAMES:   I am okay.   Don't worry about me (laughing).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT