NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
June 1, 2013
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat77
      Indiana Pacers91 
   
 Q.   LeBron, can you just explain tonight?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   Explain it?   You seen it.   It was total domination by the Pacers in the third.   They made a lot of shots.   We didn't get too many stops.   And we missed some very, very easy shots.   D‑Wade had a chippy in transition.   Rio had a chippy in transition.   We bobbled a turnover on a three‑on‑one break.   CB had a couple of good looks.   They pushed it up.   
    It just needed one quarter.   One quarter to separate the two teams.   23‑21 first.   17‑18 second, 23‑22 fourth.   And you know, 29‑15 in that third.   That was the separation.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, you're just not getting much help from Dwyane and Chris.   Do you feel like you have to do it all in Game 7?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   No.   No.   I believe in my teammates.   They are struggling right now, obviously.   So they got another opportunity on Monday, and I look forward to the challenge.   I know they do as well.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, to piggyback on his question, Bosh and Wade were 4‑of‑19 all night.   How much of that was because of the Pacers' defense or they just had a bad night?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, obviously it's a little bit of both.   They're two great players.   When they don't shoot well or play well, it's more them.   It's not taking no discredit away from Indiana's defense; they were amazing tonight.   They forced us to have more turnovers than assists.   And we only shot 36% from the floor.   
    But I think Dwyane and Chris have seen every defense ever been applied to them in their ten‑year career, and they've been able to figure it out.   This one just took a little longer.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, can you just take us through the play as far as the offensive foul and running down the court, the technical.   
    LeBRON JAMES:   I had to run down the court to stop from being kicked out.   I thought it was a pretty bad call.   I don't complain about calls too much.   I thought me and Hibbert met at the mountaintop.   I didn't throw an elbow.   Basically I went straight up.   And I knew he was going to go high hands, like he had been doing.   So I went to a double‑clutch to try to let him go down.   Then I was able to go over the top.   I don't have no idea why that was called an offensive foul.   
    So, you know, just stopped me from being ejected.   I think at that moment I just got away from the ref that called it.   
   
 Q.   Was it your understanding the tech was for the way you ran down the court?   Or did you say something as you went down there?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   I said absolutely nothing.   I ran down the court to get me away from the scene of the crime, I guess.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, Dwyane said after the game that he felt he just didn't have enough opportunities.   What's your take on that?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   I may have to look over the film.   I am able to replay a lot of plays in my head.   I know for him I know he missed a couple of chippies that he wished he could get back.   He had a lay‑up or two lay‑ups in the third, pretty good ones, pretty good looks, some looks he hadn't had all series.   He went around Hibbert I think and he missed one at the rim, it rimmed out.   He had another one that rimmed out for him as well.   I know he wish he could get those back.   Those are rhythm plays for anyone.   When you're struggling, the best thing to get is a lay‑up or a dunk.   He missed a couple of them.   
    So I can go over the film.   I will watch the film tonight and I will watch it tomorrow and see ways that we can try to help him get on track.   That will be great for our team.   
   
 Q.   As far as Chris, we know he hurt his ankle the other night.   He says it's been just not happening for him the entire series, and he's not sure why.   Any thoughts on Chris?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, we can state the obvious; they're both struggling.   Chris is struggling with his shot, and him hurting his ankle didn't help him a lot as well.   I think he will find it.   He will find it.   It's my job as a leader to keep him motivated, to let him know how important he is to our movement, to our chances of returning to The Finals.   
    The best thing about this opportunity is right here we worked all season long to get home‑court advantage.   If we ever had an opportunity or we put ourselves in position where we weren't taking care of business on the road, we always have one more to fall back on at home.   This is the position we're in and those guys as professionals, as champions, we'll figure it out.   And me as the leader, I'll have to help them figure it out.   
   
 Q.   LeBron to that end, you were in this situation just a year ago actually against Boston.   What can you draw from that?   And with all the expectations that are on the line this season, how do you keep guys relaxed over the next couple of days to just not put all the expectations in front of them?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   It's going to be tough.   I probably won't be able to relax just because of the excitement of having the Game 7 in our building, the opportunity to go to the NBA Finals.   I probably will not be able to relax until the game starts.   It's an opportunity for us.   And like I said, that's why we had the best record in the league for.   If we didn't take care of business on the road at some point in the playoffs, we can always fall back on this.   
    We'd hate to be in this position, but it's an opportunity and we look forward to it on Monday, I believe.   
   
 Q.   Throughout this series the story has been the same when it comes to points in the paint and rebounding.   In the games you guys have lost, you guys have pretty much got destroyed in those two categories.   In Game 7 what do you guys have to do to change that?   
    LeBRON JAMES:   Do the opposite of what you just said.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, your coach was in here just a while ago and Erik mentioned, something he said, you guys will remember this 20 years from now.   Getting to play in a game like that.   
    LeBRON JAMES:   It's not promised.   Each and every year there are 30 teams that would love to be a part of this.   To have one game to advance to the NBA Finals.   And there's two teams that's in this position.   And it's something that you can't substitute this feeling.   You can't substitute the atmosphere that we're going to be in on Monday night for both teams.   We should all cherish this moment.   
    At the end of the day, go out and play, have fun.   It's just a game of basketball.   That's all it is.   It's just a game of basketball at the end of the day.   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT