NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 28, 2013
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   LeBron, this is the second time you foul out of a playoff game in your career.   If you can explain the emotions of the moment, knowing your team has a chance to win when that happens. 
    LeBRON JAMES:   You would like to be out there on the floor, especially me.   Be there for my teammates especially in the closing minutes when we have a chance to win.   Wasn't able to do that. 

Q.   Can you talk about your guys' execution tonight.   Was it a matter of them stepping up defensively?   Was it a matter of not getting to what you wanted to?   It seemed like it wasn't as fluid as it was when you guys were playing better. 
    LeBRON JAMES:   That's obvious.   They did a good job of taking away our first option.   Sometimes our second option.   I believe though we had some really good looks and some of them just didn't go down.   You give a lot of credit to their D. 

Q.   LeBron, they were trying to give you a lot of different looks tonight.   Can you just talk about the job that Lance Stephenson did and what he tried to do against you. 
    LeBRON JAMES:   As a team they D'ed in on me, especially in the low post.   But for me, I've seen every defense, I've seen every individual.   I was able to get it going a little bit in the second half.   I played mostly with foul trouble. 

Q.   It seemed like you guys answered each one of their runs every time they made one.   The last three or four minutes you guys scored three points the rest of the way.   What happened with the offense at that point? 
    LeBRON JAMES:   I thought we got some great looks.   I thought CB had a great look by their bench, a three‑pointer.   I thought D‑Wade was going to get a good look on my offensive foul.   You know, you give some credit to them for sure, for holding us to only three points.   But some of the shots that we had just didn't go down. 

Q.   LeBron, you guys got beat on the glass pretty good.   In all 49‑30 and then beat in the paint pretty good, 50‑32, but you only lost by seven points.   I know a loss is a loss, but how much confidence does that give you guys going back to Miami? 
    LeBRON JAMES:   We can't afford to get beat on the glass by 20.   Can't happen.   It allows them to get second‑chance points.   Then they shot the ball from the field 50%.   As a collective group, we can't allow that. 
    But we don't need confidence to go into any game.   We're a confident bunch.   We're excited to get the opportunity to go back to our home and play Game 5. 

Q.   LeBron, you competed against Stephenson a number of times.   His teammates were saying he wanted and asked to guard you in this game, especially when George got in foul trouble, but even before.   With a kind of impact did he have overall on the outcome of this game? 
    LeBRON JAMES:   I thought, I mean, offensively he played extremely well.   He attacked us.   He got some offensive rebounds.   He got one offensive rebound for a tip‑back.   I think he played well.   He played really well.   But if you are sitting here and talking about an individual one‑on‑one match‑up between me and Lance Stephenson, I'm not going to harp on that. 

Q.   LeBron, how much did the foul trouble sort of keep you out of your rhythm?   And what did you think about the sixth foul? 
    LeBRON JAMES:   I didn't believe it was an offensive foul.   I was going to set a screen, and I felt like I was stationary.   And D‑Wade rejected the pick‑and‑roll.   Lance actually ran into me.   I believe I was straight up and down on Paul George's drive, on the and‑one.   Hibbert, they reversed a call with Hibbert, called a foul for me on that one.   And at the end of the third they called a push‑off on David West in the end of the third. 
    It was a couple of calls that I didn't feel like were fouls, personal fouls on me.   That's how the game goes sometimes. 

Q.   As a follow‑up, even in games you guys won, Roy Hibbert was still a problem.   What do you have to do to sort of compete with him a little better the rest of the series? 
    LeBRON JAMES:   He's playing well.   He has his jump‑hook going.   I think we just got to try to clean up some of those offensive rebounds that he's getting, because he's going to make some shots in the low post.   We're playing some great defense, getting them down to late seconds.   One that sticks out in my mind tonight is the long heave three by Paul George that went off the backboard, and he got the offensive rebound.   That was a big‑time play.   I think I fouled him on that to give him a three‑point play. 
    And then there's a couple of other ones.   He's so big and being around the rim, he's able to get a lot of offensive rebounds.   If we can cut that in half, it would help us out a lot. 

Q.   You get one here.   Despite losing this one, do you go back home doing what you needed to do, at least get the home court then? 
    LeBRON JAMES:   Yeah.   We wanted to be greedy and get two.   We were able to come here and regain home court.   We feel good about that.   It's a three‑game series with two on our home floor, if needed.   We look forward to Game 5. 

Q.   On a non‑basketball note, I know you had the inscription in your shoes.   There's a big story in South Florida.   How did you learn about this young girl? 
    LeBRON JAMES:   D‑Wade told me about it today.   Obviously I'm not on social media right now during the playoffs.   D‑Wade came to me with the story today, and it was a no‑brainer for me.   It's sad.   It puts everything in perspective.   At the end of the day, this game is just basketball.   Two great teams, we're competing.   But it's just basketball.   You have a little girl or any kid that loses her life over an illness, it's very sad.   It's very sad. 
    It puts everything in perspective.   I understand that this game is so magnified, and this is the talk of a lot of people throughout the day.   But what happened to Bella puts everything in perspective. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT