NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 27, 2013
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LeBRON JAMES:   We have as a tandem, as a dual, and then as a team all together, we're able to play off each other.   Whoever has it going, we can always just pull in. 

Q.   LeBron, against a team that basically has so much size, was last night an indication that it's better off with you in the post than at the point? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I play all over.   I play in the post, I play in the point.   Whatever the game presents itself, that's what I do. 

Q.   5‑0 on the road, and all of those wins by double digits.   Why do you guys seem to play so well away from home? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I just think it the adversity, the opponents' fans, that we love to just come in and try to take a game from a team on their home floor.   We love it.   We love feeling like it's just us by ourselves and against everyone else.   The challenge we're always up for. 

Q.   What's more satisfying, having 20,000 at home cheering for you or quieting 20,000 on the road? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, we love our fans for sure.   I've always personally loved getting a road win. 

Q.   Are you able to maintain the same sort of desperation you had when it was 1‑1 or when you were down in all those series last year?   Is that the next step for this team, not to make it hard on yourself like you were when you trailed the last three rounds? 
LeBRON JAMES:   The playoffs is hard.   If you're up or down, you have to win four games.   We understand that, so we look forward to the opportunity, having another game where we can win, take a commanding lead.   So we look forward to it tomorrow night. 

Q.   What adjustments do you expect tomorrow from them? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I don't know.   We'll see what happens once we get out on the floor.   This is a game of adjustments.   Whatever adjustments they make, we'll be able to counter it. 

Q.   How much do you think the early shooting kind of sparked this team? 
LeBRON JAMES:   That goes without saying.   Production offense last night was good for us.   We're going to continue to need that. 

Q.   Do you feel when you have a lot of success in one area of the game, maybe teams overreact the next game, as far as something else? 
LeBRON JAMES:   It's pick your poison, honestly.   If you're going to double me, I'll find my shooters.   If you're going to play me one‑on‑one, I'm going to be aggressive and look for my shot. 
I'm an unselfish guy.   If they try to come on the post and take the ball away from me, I'm going to look weak side.   Try to find my shooters, try to find my bigs on the baseline.   If not, I'm going to go to work. 

Q.   I know you do the prep beforehand.   Did you get a sense first quarter, starting to play in the post ‑‑
LeBRON JAMES:   I just read the game.   I see how they're playing me in the post, seeing if they are allowing me to get multiple dribbles down there or if they come right away.   I just see what the game gives me, see what the game takes, and I go from there. 

Q.   How does that first half rank in your overall offensive execution? 
LeBRON JAMES:   It's the best we've had in the playoffs for sure this year.   To score 70 points, especially against a team like this that defends so well.   It was big time. 

Q.   How patient would you say you were in the post last night?   How much time did they give you to kind of make your move? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I was very patient.   I understand what the defense was giving me, what I can take advantage of.   Just try to be aggressive, put a lot of pressure on their defense. 

Q.   When you do bounce it five, six times, how much better of a rhythm do you get in than when you have to bounce and shoot? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I feel like I'm always in rhythm, honestly.   If it takes five or if it takes me one, I'm in rhythm.   Just being aggressive is something I always want to continue to do.   

Q.   In your experience, is there much carry‑over from one playoff game to the next one? 
LeBRON JAMES:   Absolutely, there can be.   Dependent on how you play one game or how you didn't it can be.   Sometimes it works out that way; sometimes it don't.   But, yes, you can have carry‑over from one game to the next. 

Q.   Do you find when you have a good offensive rhythm, it tends to start carrying over in the series? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I feel like last night was the first time in probably‑‑ I don't know‑‑ a long time that we got to what we do.   We shot the ball extremely well from the outside.   We got our paint points. 
That's what we've done all year.   That's why we have the best record in the league.   That's why we led the league in field goal percentage.   We felt like we was going to have one of those breakout games.   And hopefully we can continue that tomorrow. 

Q.   Do you get the sense that you feel Rio and Dwyane also were able to have a little bounce and get to the cup and‑‑
LeBRON JAMES:   Absolutely.   (Indiscernible) it started with UD, UD making those shots, bringing Hibbert out a little bit more.   They took him off of CB.   He thought he could get closer to the rim.   Then UD started knocking down jumpers.   I started working the paint.   And then once D‑Wade‑‑ Rio seen he was open, they started attacking and put a lot of pressure on the defense. 

Q.   With the steps the league took this year to curtail flopping, what's your feeling on how well it's worked? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, it hasn't been a problem (Indiscernible) at all.   I haven't paid too much attention to it.   I think teams still do it, I guess. 

Q.   You still experience it in the games, though?   It still happens from time to time? 
LeBRON JAMES:   Yeah, it's year one.   Not just going to go cold turkey.   Some guys have been doing it for years, just trying to get an advantage.   Any way you can get an advantage over the opponent to help your team win, sobeit.   It's year one.   It still happens.   Definitely been less than years previous. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
LeBRON JAMES:   Much better than a few years ago.   But I still have a lot of room to improve.   A few things I can still get better with down there.   Small counter‑attacks.   Feeling the defense out a little bit more with my back towards the basket.   I can work down low (Indiscernible)   that's something I couldn't do probably just two years ago. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT