NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 2, 2012
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   LeBron, you've faced height in the first two series, in Chandler and then in Hibbert.   Is this a different kind of height you're dealing with now with what KG can do and how maybe the Celtics are trying to use him against your smaller roster?   
LeBRON JAMES:   KG is a difficult cover.   First of all, he's a more prolific scorer than of Chandler and of Hibbert.   And when he gets to shoot, his wing span is‑‑ he shoots higher than anybody we have in this league.   So we have to do a better job of trying to help each other out and not expose ourselves as much with our coverages.   
   
 Q.   You're a guy who takes pride in guarding one through five.   Is that a cover you believe with adjustments you could handle if Erik again chooses to go with the smaller lineup?   
LeBRON JAMES:   Well, we're going to have to go to it.   It's just how our lineup is being played right now, especially with CB being out.   I'm going to be guarding him either in the case of lining up against him to start the possession or a switch.   
I'm confident in it.   Just try to make it a little bit more tough on him and not give him so many relief lay‑ups with us being so aggressive on Ray in the post.   
   
 Q.   With Indiana in Game 3, you almost personally tried to get Dwyane going there so that it would turn around for you later‑‑ Game 4, actually‑‑ later in the series.   Do you feel like you're in that stage again where you would like to get him what they call the relief baskets, some easier shots?   And will that be a focus‑‑  
LeBRON JAMES:   Absolutely.   I know that D‑Wade, once he gets a few easy buckets, he starts to shoot his jumper, he starts to get to the free‑throw line and he's very aggressive from that point on.   
I had it going early on in Game 3, but I'm going to need his dominant play as well.   So I will make a conscious effort to try to get him going early.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, 24 free‑throws in Game 2, only five last night.   Dwyane had no free‑throws last night.   How do you explain that?   Anything change?   
LeBRON JAMES:   No, nothing changed in our approach.   For me, I made a lot more jumpers than I've made in the first two days.   But I still got into the paint.   I still put some pressure on the defenses, and D‑Wade did the same way.   It just didn't result in the stat sheet saying we shot free‑throws.   
   
 Q.   Do you suppose that effort was the issue‑‑ the effort stats‑‑ that they had the advantage?   Do you think that was a case of a team that was desperate down 2‑0?   
LeBRON JAMES:   No, they played great ball.   We came in with a game plan.   They executed it more than we did.   And it showed in all the big points, as far as free‑throws, the points in the paint, things like that.   So they played good ball.   
   
 Q.   What do you want to work on the most today?   What's sort of in your head to work on for Game 4?   
LeBRON JAMES:   Well, we're going to meet after this.   'Spo is going to give us a game plan for Game 4.   And if there's something as players that we see, we're going to give our opinion, and then we go and get ready.   
   
 Q.   When you guys are up 2‑0 and you lose a game, the fans think the sky is falling.   Is it different for the players?   
LeBRON JAMES:   We don't ‑‑ honestly, we don't see it too much.   We don't read into it.   I know I don't personally.   I don't get involved in it.   It's one game.   They protected the home court for Game 3.   
We get another opportunity.   That's the best thing about it.   We get another opportunity to play tomorrow, and we're going to try to win a game, go back home and try to finish it up.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, they were able to get 58 points in the paint.   What's the perimeter defender's responsibility in trying to cut that down?   
LeBRON JAMES:   We have to get back, first of all, in transition.   Also low to Rondo and then KG.   They do a good job of getting points in the paint with Rondo's attacks and KG posting and in transition.   And also Paul, he gets into the paint as well.   
So you have to be a little bit more aggressive defensively, but also a little bit smarter too.   
   
 Q.   LeBron, the history of Boston in the playoffs (Indiscernible)   
LeBRON JAMES:   These fans, they support their team.   Of course we all know the history of this team, the history of the league.   So they give great support to their team, and their team fires up after it.   And they love it.   
It's always great to be a part of it.   Like I said, I've been on both sides.   Been able to win.   I've lost more in this building than I've won.   But it's always exciting.   
   
 Q.   If they are committed to doubling Wade as good as they are, can they really hold him down like they kind of did most of last game?   Or will he do more?   
LeBRON JAMES:   As a team we have to figure out ways to exploit the double‑team.   He's going‑‑ he's always going to try to either come off the pick‑and‑roll, and when he posts up, he's going to bring two defenders.   So as his teammates, we have to make ourselves available and we have to make plays for ourself.   And also when the double‑team is not there, early and often try to get the ball to him early so he can attack without a double‑team.   
   
 Q.   Do you get hungrier when you play a team like the Celtics, who you've had this type of history with?   
LeBRON JAMES:   Hungrier?   No, I don't need to be hungrier at this point.   It's the Conference Finals.   I'm fine and looking forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT