NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
May 30, 2012
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   LeBron, even after a night for the ages for Rajon, what were you thinking at the end?   Was it relief, excitement, celebration?   When this thing is finally over, what's going through your mind after a night like that for you guys and for Rajon? 
LeBRON JAMES:   First of all, Rondo was absolutely amazing.   The performance he put on tonight will go down in the record books.   He played the whole game.   He made all the plays and tried to will his team to a victory.   He showed tonight why he's an all‑pro and one of the superstars in this league.   He's a unique player.   He's an unbelievable player.   He gave everything that he had tonight. 
As far as after the game, it was a battle.   We never felt like we won the game or lost the game until there were zeros on the clock and we looked up there and there was 115 to 111.   We were able to win this game with so many ups and downs throughout the whole game.   But it was exciting to be a part of it and to win. 

Q.   Obviously it took Dwyane a while to get on the board.   Can you talk about your feeling being on the court.   Do you know he's always going to step up and come through at crunchtime? 
LeBRON JAMES:   Absolutely.   Always feel like he's going to make a play, no matter what's going on in his game at that moment.   I always feel the next play he's going to make a play to help us push forward.   And he was definitely doing that late in the game.   He made some unbelievable shots.   Made some drives, kicked to UD for a big‑time shot as well. 
He made some big plays for us. 

Q.   LeBron, you mentioned the ups and downs of the game.   Talk about with the look you had at the end of regulation, then you missed a couple of free throws.   But you kept battling and had some nice assists, had the nice tip.   Just talk about the whole end of the game, regulation, overtime scenario for you. 
LeBRON JAMES:   We ran a play, D‑Wade was able to hit me on a pass to the rim, and I missed the lay‑up.   I felt I had a good look at it, but I was kind of off balance.   I was racing trying to get the offensive rebound to give us the last possession.   I had a great look at it at the end of regulation, it just didn't go down. 
And then started the overtime, I missed two free throws.   Like you said, I tried to help us win.   Whatever it took, whether it was offensive rebounds, trying to get a defensive stop or whatever the case may be, trying to be out there to help my teammates win.   I was happy to be able to make a few plays. 

Q.   LeBron, the way they play you guys on the screen‑and‑rolls, especially today they were showing the extra help early, and on Dwyane they were pretty much trapping until he passed the ball.   At certain points is it almost better to go just isolation, or does that kind of put you in a place where you don't want to be? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, there's parts of the games where you have iso ball, but it's not what we want to do.   We don't want high doses of that.   We want to continue to work our habits, continue to do what we've been doing over the course of the season.   If the pick‑and‑roll blows up, we have to get the ball from one side to another, and not try to force anything.   Now the clock is at a disadvantage for us. 
They showed us something different tonight defensively, which we knew they would.   We knew they would make a change.   That's why this series is going to be great, because both coaches are going to make adjustments throughout the series.   We get an opportunity to watch the film tomorrow, and we'll go from there. 

Q.   LeBron, so much is going to be talked about Rondo's game, obviously.   But just talk about the grit Rio showed.   He kind of kept you in the game in the first half. 
LeBRON JAMES:   Absolutely.   That's what I told Rio in the game after in the locker room.   He kept us afloat by his play.   When D‑Wade didn't have it going, Rio made big shots.   Especially in the second quarter, in the third quarter as well he kept us afloat.   He stepped up, made some big shots and gave us a lift.   He gave us a third punch that we needed in this game.   So he played a great game. 
You guys are tired too, huh.   I appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT