NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 24, 2012
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  LeBRON JAMES:   I'm happy to be here.   This is my eighth All‑Star, this is my ninth year being a part of the whole weekend, so it's great.

Q.   What does it say about Miami as a whole when you have six guys representing All‑Star weekend here?
LeBRON JAMES:   It's great to show the type of team we have, to have myself, CB, D Wade in the All‑Star Game on Sunday, versus Norris tonight playing in the sophomore game, and having J.J. and 'Rio in the three‑point competition tomorrow night, so we've got all three days covered.   It's great. 

Q.   I know 'Rio is your boy and all, but talk about if it comes down to the finals. 
LeBRON JAMES:   'Rio and J.J., both of them are my boys.   We all hang out together, me, him, D Wade and UD.   It'll be tough, man.   I know J.J. is straight lights out, but 'Rio will shoot the ball lights out tonight.   We get both of them in The Finals, then we know we've got a winner no matter what.

Q.   Has it gone away a little bit, the luster of everybody hating on the Heat?
LeBRON JAMES:   I don't know, man.   You know, we just go out as a team, as a unit.   We just try to come represent our team the best way we can and keep moving forward.

Q.   Why do you think you've never chosen to do the Dunk Contest?
LeBRON JAMES:   That's not me.   I'm not a Dunk Contest type of guy.   I'm an in‑game dunker.   I kind of improvise during the game.   But I don't know, I'm not all for scoreboards and all that stuff. 

Q.   What if they made it one winner take all?
LeBRON JAMES:   Then I'll consider it.   Wouldn't you? 

Q.   Since KG and Tim Duncan aren't here, are you feeling like the generation is changing?
LeBRON JAMES:   I feel like me and D Wade were just talking about it, as far as the All‑Stars on our team, we've got the most All‑Stars, so we feel like the elder statesmen not having KG around in our locker room, not having Shaq the last couple years.   It's been different, of course.   Like you said, Tim Duncan and J‑Kidd, all those guys who have been a part of All‑Star weekend, also.   We're just trying to hold it down for the younger guys, being the older guys now, but it's great to be a part of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT