NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on being teammates with four guys from Boston this weekend? 
 LeBRON JAMES: I think they are great. What that team has done and to see that they have four All-Stars, man, it's amazing. It's a tribute to their success and it's a tribute to their coaches understanding how good those guys are and I think it's fun. 
 It has not went our way yet but we are going to continue to work. We have got a little ways to go to get to where they are but it's definitely a team that can handle success.

 Q. Have you spoken to Carmelo about his situation?
 LeBRON JAMES: I have. I'm not going to sit here and elaborate on it because there's way too much going on with that whole situation, but I wish best for him in whatever decision he makes in his career. 

 Q. You're familiar with the NHL All-Star Game --
 LeBRON JAMES: Yeah, they did the draft, they took two captains.

 Q. Could that work in the NBA?
 LeBRON JAMES: No, because Eastern Conference, Western Conference, we don't like each other. We would not pick somebody from the Western Conference to be over here to be with us and I don't think they would, either. I don't think it would work. 

 Q. Who is your first pick? 
 LeBRON JAMES: I don't know if I would be a captain. There's so many great athletes in our game, both teams will be equal because you have 24 of the best players in the league in that particular time. 

 Q. What was your favorite all-time All-Star memory? 
 LeBRON JAMES: Growing up as a kid, I think one I can really look back on is looking at Vince Carter, his Dunk Contest moment. I was in high school when that happened. To this day, that probably was the best Dunk Contest I've seen. You go back to the 80s, late 80s with Jordan, but what Vince Carter did in the Dunk Contest, I think it was in Oakland, if I'm not mistaken. It was amazing.

 Q. Could anyone play LeBron James, could anyone do that roll justice, if Hollywood made a movie about your life?
 LeBRON JAMES: Absolutely. Will Smith is amazing. Denzel is amazing. One of my favorites, Martin Lawrence. A lot of great actors out there for sure. 

 Q. How concerned are you about a lockout next season?
 LeBRON JAMES: Concerned, not sure. I'm optimistic about it. Hopefully both sides can come away with an agreement that benefits both sides. No one wants to see a lockout, not the fans, not the players, not the owners. This game is too big and everyone enjoys it so much. Hopefully things can get situated before the start of the season.

 Q. What's your gut feeling about the situation?
 LeBRON JAMES: I don't know what my gut feeling is now. We have a meeting today and hopefully we can iron out some things. 

 Q. Beginning of the season -- hinted that the two sides could not agree on numbers, was that the wrong time and the wrong place? 
 LeBRON JAMES: I could not make a comment on him saying it may be or it may not be. We don't have a deal, but the deal is not over until July 1 but at that point hopefully we can get a deal done. 

 Q. Are the players united? 
 LeBRON JAMES: Absolutely.

 Q. Do you notice a consistency between being one of the most booed players in the league but also being one of the top vote-getters?
 LeBRON JAMES: I definitely love all of my fans. They gave me an opportunity to be a starter on the East team. 
 As far as being booed, I thrive on it. I love it and you get an opportunity to go into hostile buildings and hear a lot of boos, but at the same time, they respect what you do. 

 Q. Can you appreciate, you were in a similar situation to Carmelo a year ago, can you appreciate what he's going through and how tough it is?
 LeBRON JAMES: It's definitely tough. It seems like it's out of his hands, though. It's different for me because I was unrestricted. I could get a deal whenever I wanted to, and I chose to go to Miami. 
 I would definitely support whatever Carmelo Anthony does, he's a really good friend of mine and a brother and I wish him the best. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT