NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 21, 2009
LeBron James
Delonte West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   DELONTE WEST: Now we just have to do a good job defending. Like I said, Rashard Lewis took a tough shot there.

 Q. Do you guys feel like tomorrow is a must-win? 
 DELONTE WEST: Yeah, no question. Tomorrow is definitely a must-win. We definitely got to win one before we go down to Orlando. These are the playoffs. So it is a must-win.

 Q. Is there an emotional fallout? Things have gone so well here at home all year. 
 DELONTE WEST: We aren't used to losing at home. The guys were kind of shocked. We had a whole arena full of shocked people. 
 It is one game. That's the beauty of the playoffs. It is a seven-game series.

 Q. What is your mentality for, Game 2, a must-win? 
 LeBRON JAMES: You're done. What was the question? 

 Q. It was a must-win. 
 LeBRON JAMES: Game 2? It is. It is. It is a big game. We are looking forward to the challenge. 
 Last night's game, we watched it. It was a great game. Great performance by both teams, the Final Four teams.
 You don't want to go down 0-2. We are going to try to even it tomorrow.

 Q. How does it change the mentality?
 LeBRON JAMES: It doesn't. Every game we play, we go out and try to win every game. We are looking forward to it tomorrow. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 LeBRON JAMES: I think we did a pretty good job of it last night. We watched the game. For the most part, when a guy has it going like that -- I mean, we was up two points. And if Rashard missed that 3, we aren't having that type of conversation. 
 It is tough. You know, it is tough sometimes because you got the flow of the game and (indiscernible) has it going like that, you have rhythm. But at the same time, you keep missing it. You have to try to balance it sometimes.

 Q. LeBron, for those that say they have beaten you guys nine of the last 12 games, they got your number, what do you guys say to that? 
 LeBRON JAMES: It is going to be a long series, we believe. We got to approach every game like it is the last. We are just going to go out and play. 

 Q. (Indiscernible).
 LeBRON JAMES: Mo is that type of guy. Last night he didn't feel like he did enough. I really think he did. He is hard on himself and that's good.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 LeBRON JAMES: He played a great game. He didn't shoot the ball particularly well from the field, but his overall game was good. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 LeBRON JAMES: Got to stay hydrated. It is long, mentally and physically draining. I was doing the jumps and all those types of things. Hopefully after last night -- with nine days of layoffs, you can not simulate 40,000-plus fans. My body just didn't adjust well last night but I'm okay.

 Q. Drink a lot of Gatorade? 
 LeBRON JAMES: No, a lot of water. I don't drink Gatorade. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 LeBRON JAMES: Like I said, we come out shooting like that, it is going to be tough to win. We know those guys are going to shoot a high percentage in the paint. A lot of the other guys played great.

 Q. What do you do different defensively in the paint? 
 LeBRON JAMES: I think (inaudible) did a great job. We made a few mistakes getting the rebounds that needed to be put back. We didn't have one block last night. That was -- I mean, that shows how well offensively we played. 
 He is a great player. Not many guys that can stop him in the low post. He had it going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT