NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 24, 2007
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Describe the last 24 seconds of the game.   
 LEBRON JAMES:  Just wanted to try to get the best shots possible to try to either give us the lead, get fouled, go to the line and try to send us home with a win.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel you got fouled on the last play?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  I believe there was some contact, but there's been a lot of contact throughout this series.  We're a no-excuse team, you know, and we can't look at the last play as why we lost.  We've just got to get better.  But I do feel there was some contact.   
  
  Q.  Enough to force you to miss the shot?   
  LEBRON JAMES:  I think so.    
  Q.  When you're kicking that ball out to Sasha, I mean, Flip used the expression "Ground Hog Day," how much did it feel like, wow, here we go again with the same play that ended the game?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  That was definitely a good look.  I thought Sasha had the opportunity to shoot the ball, and I guess he seen Chauncey closing out and he couldn't get the shot up.  It was a tough play for Sasha, tough play for us but we had to try to at least get the ball up at the rim.  We can't have a turnover.   
  
  Q.  How did you feel in general about your performance?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  I played pretty good.  I can play a lot better.  At the end of the day we didn't win.  You know, we gave ourselves a chance to win the game, when it came down to the final possessions and we can't make the right plays and we didn't get the stop that we needed to win the ballgame.   
  
  Q.  Your body language was looking pretty frustrated all night, kind of slumping your shoulders, rolling your eyes and looking at your bench.  Was that call-related or --   
 LEBRON JAMES:  That was just me wanting to win the basketball game.  I never felt frustrated.  I just wanted to execute as best we can on the offensive and on the defensive end trying to get stops.   
 No frustrations at all, though, in my teammates.  I can't be frustrated out there me trying to be a leader.  I just want to win the ballgame.   
  
  Q.  After that final Cleveland possession after the clock stopped with one second left, we could see you saying something to the referees, what were you saying?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  That's over and done with.  Me and the ref had a good conversation, and I've moved on as a player.   
  
  Q.  This is the second game in a row where the Pistons came out of the locker room and really made a difference at the beginning of the third quarter, what do you think happens there that causes that problem?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  I'm not sure.  They've definitely got a good plan coming out in the third quarter.  That's something as a team we've got to figure it out, but they do a great job in the third quarter of coming out and putting the pressure on you.  We haven't been a good third quarter team all year.  I don't know why.  That's something we'll have to figure out very soon or we're going home.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT