NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 21, 2007
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I know you say that you're a football player, but do you think football players would get some fouls?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  (Laughing) It was definitely a physical game tonight.  You know, fouls were called at times and weren't called at times.  You know, this is what it's about.  You know, you can't look to get fouls and you've got to try to be as aggressive as possible.   
  
  Q.  The last play there, Coach said that was kind of a read-react for you.  Did you feel that you didn't have a shot at the layup and that's why you kicked it out to Donyell for the shot?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  No, I go for the winning play.  If two guys come at you and your teammate is open, then give it up.  Simple as that.   
  
  Q.  As a franchise player, how do you justify only taking three shots in the fourth quarter of a pretty tight game?  Do you think the fact you didn't go to the free-throw line tonight is maybe a statement on your aggressiveness or lack thereof?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  No, you've just got to take what's there.  It's not about taking a high volume of shots, it's about trying to win the basketball game.  You've got to take what's there.  We had an opportunity to me with me taking three shots in the fourth quarter.  We game is not solely on taking a lot of shots.  I'm going to continue to say that.  That's the only answer I can give you.  We had an opportunity to win.   
  
  Q.  Coach said that a couple of adjustments need to be made.  You played pretty well as a team overall, got away at the end.  Does anything stand out in your mind, adjustments to make for Game 2?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  We definitely played pretty well.  Both teams are going to make adjustments, you just do that in the playoffs.  But as a whole we played pretty well.  You can't ask for nothing more than what we did tonight.  We always want to win the ballgame, but we always say if we play as hard as we did tonight for 48 minutes, like we did, we're not satisfied but we can look back and say, okay, we're okay with this loss tonight.   
  
  Q.  Third quarter, again, you guys fell behind 7-0, I think they started with a run, there was a 17-6 run before it settled down.  It's the third game in a row.  What seems to be the problem coming out of the locker room at halftime with you guys?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  Not sure.  It's just something that we've got to work on and get better at.  At times we look to take too many jump shots to start the third quarter instead of attacking.   
 Definitely with a team like Detroit that's very efficient on the offensive end, we've got to know how to pick your poison at times, and if there's a jump shot that's open, take your shot.   
  
  Q.  What does it feel like to have a team play defense against you and not be able to do what you're normally used to?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  They played great.  I mean, their defensive mindset is very good.  But for me, I just -- you just take what's there.  You know, if you get a good look at it, you go for it.  If not you kick it to a teammate.  Simple as that.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT