NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 20, 2005
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. LeBron, did you kind of feel people kind of wanted you to take over?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  No, not really.  You know, I was just trying to get a win.  I was able to make some contribution tonight to help with the win, and I'm happy that we came away with it.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like you had to defer at all to AI and Shaq and some of the older guys?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  Well, I was just out there playing my game.   
 Helped our team win, that's all I care about.   
  
  Q.  Once you leave Denver, what will your memories be of your first All-Star Weekend?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  Just having a great time with everybody, the East team and the West team, being out there competing with the guys was a great experience.   
  
  Q.  You had another good game on the big stage and you said the other day that you don't believe in pressure, but you're only 20 and people, usually when they are 20, they do feel the pressure.  When did you learn and how did you learn to handle the pressure this way?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  Just being myself.  I never believed in pressure.  I just go out there and play my game, and it always takes care of itself.   
  
  Q.  Could you talk about midway through the third quarter, I think you got a steal and had an open court, the fans were probably looking for something fantastic.  Can you just talk about your dunk?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  It was just a regular dunk.  My ankle is not 100 percent, so I'm not able to leap as high as I want to, but I'm in no shape or form was I trying to please the crowd.  I was just trying to get a win.   
  
  Q.  You and Allen have a friendship and you've gotten to observe him this weekend.  He said he's talked to you on a number of things, not just basketball but other things.  What is your impression of Allen this weekend and what memories will you take away from this?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  My impression of Allen Iverson?  He's a great guy to be around, real level-headed.  People judge a book by its cover about Allen Iverson all the time which is not right, but, you know, when you get to know him and you get to be around him, he's a totally different person than what everybody perceives him to be.  He played great tonight and he showed -- he showed his great athletic ability and helped us win.   
  
  Q.  What was this entire weekend like compared to what you were expecting coming into it?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  Everything that happened I expected.  You know, a lot of ripping and running, some appearances to take care of and then go out there and have fun and see the guys that you play against every weekend.   
  
  Q.  The last time Grant Hill was an All-Star, you were in junior high.  What was it like playing against him and also seeing some of the old Grant Hill with the alley-oop?   
 LEBRON JAMES:  I was excited to see him on the back court.  I told him when we played Orlando the first time I was excited to have him back out there.  I watched him growing up, the things that he did was amazing and I'm just happy that he's able to go out there.  He caught an alley-oop today which was surprising.  Then he told me he wasn't going to catch one but he caught an alley-oop today.  I'm just happy to see him 100%.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT