NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2016
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
 
West 196, East 173   
 Q.  LeBron, you're the NBA's all-time leading scorer in All-Star Games now, I think, by one point over Kobe.  Does it mean anything to you to get that and especially just being that you got it in Kobe's last game?  
LeBRON JAMES: Oh, it absolutely means nothing.  It means absolutely nothing (smiling).  I'm just blessed to be a part of All-Star Weekend.  This being my 12th consecutive appearance, being able to start for the East, it means a lot to my family and my fans.  But the scoring, that's never meant nothing to me.   
 Q.  LeBron, you had that one exchange with Kobe there where you're slapping the court, put your arms out.  What was that exchange for you?  And that seemed to be one of the few times somebody got in a defensive stance.  What was that like tonight?  
LeBRON JAMES: Oh, like I've been saying over the last week, it was Kobe's last game before the break was in Cleveland.  It was just bittersweet being out on the floor with him, knowing the matches between us two are coming to an end soon.  We've got one more in March in L.A.  But when you get that opportunity versus a great man, you just have fun with it.  I know it's been overwhelming for him over this year, but our fans across the world and here in the States and here in Toronto, as well, has just been paying so much respect.  It's all well deserved.  Man, I'm happy that I've been along for a small piece of the ride of his journey.   
 Q.  To follow up on the Kobe stuff, was there any banter between you two that jumped out to you tonight?  
LeBRON JAMES: What does that word mean?   
 Q.  As far as any interaction, talking and interaction?  
LeBRON JAMES: No, just small talk, man, but all in the favor of respect between each other.  We're very good friends, and I've been watching his journey for 20 years.  He's been keeping up on mine for 13.  So it's been pretty cool.   
 Q.  When you came in, Kobe was already established as an All-Star and whatnot.  Has it sunk in really that this is the last time that you're going to be in an All-Star Game and Kobe Bryant will be there as well?  
LeBRON JAMES: I don't think so.  If I'm fortunate enough to represent the East next year in a game by either being voted in or coach picks me, and I don't see him out there in Charlotte, I think that's when it will sink in.  But at this point, it hasn't sunk in yet.   
 Q.  You're as familiar with this market as almost any NBA player.  What did you think people who might not have been as familiar with might have gained from the experience of having an All-Star outside of the U.S. and in this city in particular?  
LeBRON JAMES: First of all, to the people of Toronto, Canada, and all of Canada as a country, thanks for welcoming our league with open and warm arms.  Even though the weather wasn't as warm, the arms and the love from everyone here has been well received.  It's been a great All-Star Weekend from everything, from the community service that we've done, to the events that we did, to everything that had anything to do with our league.   
This is our biggest stage as far as when you get everyone together.  All 30 teams are here, plus our D-League, plus the WNBA, plus you just name it, everything that's associated with our shield is here this weekend.  And Toronto did a hell of a job of putting on a show, and it was an honor.   
 Q.  Russell Westbrook two years ago had three surgeries on his knee and now the last two years has won All-Star MVP.  What's it like watching him from an athletic standpoint and what he's done coming back from the knee surgeries to be better than ever?  
LeBRON JAMES: I don't believe he had surgery, personally (laughing).  It was just like, you know what, I'm just going to take a little bit of time off.  No, but it's been incredible, man.  Just like you said, to have three knee surgeries and he hasn't really lost -- he hasn't lost.  He's actually gained a step or two or three.  He's one of the most athletic guys that our league has seen and obviously in today's game as well.  He's a phenomenal talent.  You don't come across these guys that often and in our sport.   
 Q.  Your minutes were limited.  Were you lobbying Coach Lue?  Was that part of the plan?  What was the deal?  
LeBRON JAMES: Oh, well, it was going as planned.  If the game would have gotten a little closer, he would have put me back in the game.  I think from his standpoint, he'd rather me not play as much, knowing what's ahead of us.  But minutes were down, but it felt good just to be out there in the minutes that I played and be able to cheer on the rest of my All-Stars while I was sitting out.   
 Q.  Did you have a Kobe moment of what happened tonight?  
LeBRON JAMES: My favorite Kobe moment from tonight?  I just think, wow, there were so many.  I think the introduction that Magic gave and then him going and talking to the fans here.  He got an opportunity to just thank the fans here.  And the game has given him so much over these 20 years.  To have an opportunity to be able to make a contribution to the Jumbotron, to the video, that meant a lot for me.  It meant a lot to him as well, and he voiced that to me.   
 Q.  With all that time that you spent on the sideline tonight, it looked like you had your seat adjacent to the bench so some of the guys kids could be there.  Could you tell us what was going on?  
LeBRON JAMES: Well, those are my nephews.  D-Wade's two boys and Melo's boys, and I wanted them to be a part of it just like we were.  And I was able to take one of the seats from one of the ushers and made him stand up for the rest of the game and allowed my nephews to sit on the bench.  So those guys are going to be around the game for a long time, and they're now at an age, along with my two sons and also CP's son where they actually understand -- they're starting to understand what's actually going on now.  I think it's pretty cool for them to experience something like this, experience this weekend and see what their fathers have been able to do up to this point.  Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT