NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2016
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  There is a report that the Cleveland Cavs are in trade talks with Kevin Love, as you've probably heard about.  What are your thoughts when you hear that kind of stuff this time of year?  
LEBRON JAMES: It's false.  It's the only thing I can look at it and say it's false.  That's the last thing guys are worried about right now are trade talks from our team.   
 Q.  When you've heard those from the past, what is the key to not allow that stuff to impact your team going forward?  
LEBRON JAMES: One thing about this business is you can only control what you can control.  Things that you can't control, you can't let it bother you, and I've learned that over the years.  There is so much that goes on in professional sports that if you just focus on what you can control, everything else will take care of itself.   
 Q.  What's it mean to your team going forward as you guys try to get a championship this year?  
LEBRON JAMES: Every piece we have means a lot to the process, obviously with myself, and Kyrie and Kev, we kind of spearhead the whole thing.  If we're focused on the main thing and knowing what the main thing is every day, then we give ourselves a great chance.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
LEBRON JAMES: Well, I mean, I feel for any one of my friends.  Obviously it's well-documented that Carmelo and Dwyane Wade, Chris Paul are my three best guys that we have around this league.  I felt for CP last year in the postseason.  I felt for D-Wade with all the injuries he's had.  Last year having a rough season, not making the playoffs.  I feel for Melo, when anything happens with those guys, and it's all reciprocated through the four of us.  So I want the best and most high success for all three of them.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) Chris Paul?  
LEBRON JAMES: You just said it, sustained.  He doesn't get caught up in the new age point guard.  He's a true (Indiscernible) he just works and works and works on his craft.   It's always great to see him be here, and this being his ninth time.  He's a special kid.   
 Q.  What is the key to keep it going in the second half?  
LEBRON JAMES: Just consistency from a mental side of things.  The game of basketball is more mental than anything, especially when you start getting to the postseason.  The top 16 teams make the postseason for a reason, but whatever record that you have at that point goes down the drain.  Everyone starts at zero and zero, and it's about the mental side of the game that kind of gets you over the hump.   
So as we continue to do what Coach Lue and the coaching staff want us to do, and mentally prepare ourselves for the long haul, then we'll be fine.   
 Q.  You guys face the top team the Warriors in the West, what stands out about what they're doing right?  
LEBRON JAMES: Consistency and no complacency.  I think they've used last year to just take them to another height.  Obviously, with Steph and Draymond and Klay, they spearhead the whole thing.  But everybody else falls into place, from Iggy to Barbosa to Barnes to Bogut, along all the way down.  Those guys fall into place.  They know their roles.  They know what they need to do out there every single night, and they play.  They play their roles individually as how they should play.  And they don't step outside that box.  That's what makes them so good.   
 Q.  Couple weeks ago there was conversation around your team about conditioning and playing at a faster pace.  Where do you think the guys are right now?  
LEBRON JAMES: I'm in a very good place as far as where I would like to be as far as us changing our pace and us playing faster.  The worst thing that could have happened to us is the All-Star break.  Seven days, we haven't played since Wednesday.  We won't play against until Thursday.  So that's the worst thing that could happen.   
But we have a veteran ball club, and I know guys will take a couple days off, which they should, and then at least get some cardio in.  I'm not expecting guys to be back on the floor, because staying off the floor is probably what's most beneficial for our team right now.  But getting some work in so we know when we come back Wednesday or Tuesday for practice we're ready to go.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) has the meaning of it changed at all over the years?  
LEBRON JAMES: Only thing that changed is the city, and some of that has been the same.  I've been to Houston, New Orleans and L.A. twice.  This is our biggest stage.  This is the NBA, it's our biggest stage.  It's the most media coverage that we're going to get.  We have all the greatest athletes and greatest fans here in one venue, and it's always an honor to be here.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) do you think they take you for granted?  
LEBRON JAMES: I hope not.  I hope not.  I give a lot to the game.  My craft and what I dedicate to the game on a daily basis, I hope I'm not taken for granted.  I put so much into not only what I want to do out there, but for my teammates and for my fans and things of that nature.  So I hope that I'm appreciated in what I do.   
 Q.  What do you think about Kobe this weekend, and Steph, a new age kind of guy, is it OK to share that spotlight and take a little bit of the pressure off?  
LEBRON JAMES: Well, first of all, it's bittersweet that this is Kobe's last All-Star Game.  I remember when I was a youngster, I think I was in the 10th or 11th grade and I was watching MJ's last All-Star Game, so it kind of has that same feeling.   
You know, we have so many great athletes in our game, it's never one guy that carries the whole load.  Our game is made up of so many different make-ups, so many different countries, so many different players, shapes, sizes, that we all do our part and make sure the shield is protected.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT