NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SAN DIEGO
March 16, 2018
Gregg Marshall
Conner Frankamp
Shaquille Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Marshall - 81, Wichita State - 75   
THE MODERATOR: We will begin with an opening statement from head Coach from Wichita State, Gregg Marshall.   
GREGG MARSHALL: I want to congratulate Marshall being back in the tournament for first time in 31 years to play and advance.  It's a special feeling.  I'm happy for them.  Obviously, not happy that we're on the losing end of this one.  We did not play the game that we need to do play, the quality of which we could have advanced.  When that happens in this tournament you come up on the short end.  So congrats to them.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes, Conner Frankamp and Shaquille Morris?   
 Q.  Conner, congratulations on your performance.  Curious your thoughts on No. 33 on Marshall, his performance?  
CONNER FRANKAMP: We knew going into the game that he was a really good player.  I'm not sure how much he finished with tonight, but he controlled the game, controlled the pace of the game.  He played really well, but we knew that going into the game.  He made some tough shots and got some easy looks that we can't give up.   
 Q.  Guys, was there anything that surprised you as the game played out about the way they were playing?  
SHAQUILLE MORRIS: No, they pretty much executed their offense however they wanted.  Nothing that was too surprising.  They just came out and executed better than us and made us turn the ball over and scored off turnovers.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, gentlemen.  Questions for Coach Marshall?   
 Q.  Coach, your thoughts on No. 33's performance for Marshall and their style of play, what made it so effective?  
GREGG MARSHALL: He's a great player.  He showed that today.  He hit big shot of after big shot.  Controlled the tempo of the game, made his free throws.  I thought there was a lot of plays in the game obviously, but one of the big plays was they had the ball out in a short shot clock, may have been 3 or 4 seconds and they had it in their end in the second half and they threw it to him in front of their bench and he made an incredible three-point shot.  I think tied the game at that point.  We had led up by as many as 7 early in the second half, and that was a big-time shot.   
They're very hard to guard.  They have a great and very unique offense.  Coach D'Antoni does a great job of spacing the floor and they only made 39% of their threes.  They had some good looks, but it's a good offense.  It really is.  It's difficult to prepare for and they spread you out with shooters all over court.   
 Q.  Coach, talk about Conner's performance tonight making virtually all of your three-pointers and what was go going on with the three pointers from rest of the team do you think?  
GREGG MARSHALL: Conner had a great game.  Thank goodness he showed up and played as well as he did today.  Otherwise, it would have been even worse.  He has 27, 6 for 10.  Darral Willis had the other three pointers.  He goes 2 for 3.  The rest of the team combines to go 0 for 16, so that makes it difficult.  We've got some really good shooters in that group, shoot a high percentage throughout the course of the year, and they didn't do that today.   
It's disappointing, but you have to give credit to Marshall.  You have to give credit to their defense and we have to have guys step up and make shots in order to win.   
 Q.  In years past, you guys have maybe come in as the lower seeded team and this year obviously the higher seeded one.  Rashard said that mindset might have changed during the preparation this week.  I was wondering if you had seen that in the guys at all?  
GREGG MARSHALL: How did that change?  I'm not sure what you mean.   
 Q.  That's what he said.  Their mindset might have changed because of the higher seed during preparation?  
GREGG MARSHALL: Not knowing what that means, it's hard to answer the question, but...   
 Q.  I guess similar question to that, switching conference, obviously your first year out of the Missouri Valley.  Does that change a mindset looking at teams from "lesser conferences"?  
GREGG MARSHALL: No, I don't think, at least from my perspective.  I can't read the minds of my players, but from a coaching staff perspective it didn't change at all.  Our preparation was as thorough and diligent as we could possibly do.  They had our full and undivided attention.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT