ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 6, 2015
William Porterfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Is this a more important game than most?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: To be honest I don't even know.  Everything is in our hands in terms of wins.  Tomorrow is no different.  We've gone into every game looking for those two points, and we're two from three at the minute, and going into tomorrow looking to make that three from four.   Q.  Are you still looking for the right combination of right balance in your bowling attack?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: I think the balance in our bowling attack is pretty good.  I think it's just a case of getting it right on the day.  I think what we have and what we've gone in with have actually worked very well for us, but it just came up short in a few overs the other day.   Q.  Everybody is coming up short in the last 15 overs; that's one consolation, isn't it?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: Yeah, it is a trend in the tournament that's been happening so far, but it's not something that you just take for granted or you just say, well, we're going to go for whatever in the last few overs.  But it's just kind of how it is.  You can't just have an attitude like that.  You've got to look to do what you can do to make things better and go by things in the last 10 and minimize that damage, and one of the ways to do that is obviously take wickets through the early stages of the game.  I think that's how we look to go about doing that can obviously help you coming down the back end.   Q.  And specifically on Zimbabwe, obviously you're targeting them in the rankings, so a pretty big game tomorrow?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: Yeah, it's not something that's going to overly concern us going into the game is rankings.  From our own point of view it's two points that's up for grabs, and that's what's important in this tournament, and that's what's going to get us through to the later stages, picking up points, so I think that's the big thing for tomorrow.   Q.  Their captain being absent is obviously a plus in your mind?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: Yeah, he strikes the ball very well coming down near the back end and obviously gives them a lot of balance in the field, as well.  Whoever comes in to replace him, I'm sure they've got a strong enough squad to compensate that.  But he does strike the ball very clean and is a very dangerous player coming down the middle order.   Q.  Any injuries on your squad?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: No, we've got a full 15 to pick from.   Q.  Any lineup changes from the game against South Africa?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: It's not something we're going to discuss just yet.  Obviously we're going to discuss that within the squad, and everyone will know that first if there's going to be any changes before we say anything, really.   Q.  What did you learn from that game?  A pretty hot South African side.  Did you take anything out of certain aspects of it?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: Yeah, most definitely.  I think any game you play you're going to learn from, and I think the day you stop learning is the day you stop playing really, so you're going to pick up a lot of things from games, and it just shows that they played close to a perfect game in terms of what they want to do, and they showed that in terms of setting it up for the back end.  The way Hashim and Du  Plessis did that I think shows what you want to do and is kind of the makeup of how a lot of sides going about it, getting that platform and coming home strong.   Q.  Is the team excited to be here in Hobart?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: Yeah, most definitely.  I think it's one of the things we're glad to see in terms of the group stage, getting around and seeing a lot of both countries.  It is a great thing to do and travel around.  Hobart is no different.  I think a lot of lads like coming in and playing and seeing what's on offer here, and it looks like quite a nice city.  Lucky enough to be here for a few days and had a nice reception last night, as well.  It's a pretty nice place.   Q.  Is that hard to really come to a ground you haven't played at before?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: No, I think you get used   assess things a lot from being here, and you've got nets, different things like that.  You assess conditions, and I think couple of the lads  I think Georgie may have been down here before, but apart from that, not a lot of the lads would have played much cricket here.  But we've got Matthew Mott on board, as well; he's obviously Australian and he's been a big help in terms of different conditions, different climates, things like that, what's happening around the grounds.  We'll draw a lot from him, as well.   Q.  When you compare yourselves with Zimbabwe as a side, you've been fairly even.  Have you been conscious of that the last few years?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: Yeah, haven't played them a heck of a lot.  I think the last stage we may have played them would have been 2010.  We've come against them in a couple of games, more so in warmup games in competition, which are obviously not  not that it's not as competitive, but you've got 12, 13, 14 lads playing in a game, so it's a bit distorted in terms of things like that.  But yeah, looking at tables, things like that, it suggests we're quite close together.   Q.  What do you remember of the tie in '07, your introduction to the World Cup, a pretty memorable match?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: Yeah, it was for myself because I had the first over.  Not personally, but no, it obviously was a big point for us in the context of that group.  We had a few group games and got that and the win over Pakistan, so it was a big starting point for us, and as you said, a very memorable day.   Q.  You guys have had some pretty impressive run chases so far during the World Cup.  Will you be happy to bat or bowl first tomorrow?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: I haven't actually been out there.  So far it's just conditions wicket depending that goes from ground to ground.  We play six different group games in six different venues that are going to come up with different challenges and different pitches, conditions, things like that.  We're just going to have to see what the wicket throws up tomorrow.   Q.  What's the mood like in the camp at the moment?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: The mood is very good, and that's the biggest thing for myself is that things haven't changed, and you can get that impression game on game, throughout tournaments.  You can see if moods tend to drop or not, and that hasn't been the case.  After that game I thought we did that pretty quickly and the lads' focus was turned straight on to this game, which is great.   Q.  Do you come into a game like this sort of expecting to win as opposed to competing, things like that?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: I think that's how we approach every day mindset and you're only going to get that mindset from having prepared the right way and know that you're on top of your own game and you're feeling 100 percent confident and back everything that you've done, the things you've been working on and the buildup to the competition, not only since you've been here but in the months building up and the season building up, the years building up, whatever. You've got to 100 percent trust in your own game, and when you bring that together collectively as a squad, that's all you can ask for, and once you win the game with that belief in your own game, then you're winning.   Q.  After the South African match you sort of said that it's not necessarily crunch time.  We've heard from Brendan Taylor this morning that it was crunch time by Zimbabwe and yourselves.  What would you say to that?  WILLIAM PORTERFIELD: We're halfway through our group campaign.  I don't think it's crunch time for ourselves.  We're two from three.  We're going out there tomorrow to make it three from four.  If you start looking too far ahead in games and things like that and the competition, then you're taking your eye off the ball.  I think you've got to prepare for each game as and when it comes, and we're not looking any further past tomorrow, but we're obviously looking to make it three from four.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT