NCAA WOMEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS
May 25, 2015
Shauna Estes-Taylor
Gaby Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RICK NIXON:   We're joined on the dais buy Gaby Lopez and Shauna Estes‑Taylor from the University of Arkansas, Gaby finishes in with a 66 today, 2‑under par overall.   Gaby, your feelings on your play, especially today and overall the last few days? 
GABY LOPEZ:   You know, it's always a special week, and especially today I think was one of the best days of my life.   At the beginning when she actually introduced me, she said we were going to actually represent some of the members of the military.   She said his name, and the date that he was killed, and at that moment I smiled because I realized that that was my birthday.   So it was a very special moment for me, and I knew in that moment that I was going to have a good day, and someone was going to be with me on the golf course, so I don't know, I just let it go, and I was just really, really proud of myself out there, trying to handle the pressure. 
RICK NIXON:   What were some of the keys for your round today, 66? 
GABY LOPEZ:   You know, I realized that yesterday my speed on the greens wasn't that good, so I tried to look for more the tension and getting the speed down and relax and just smile, and I was enjoying the moment and being present in every single shot.
RICK NIXON:   Coach, your thoughts on watching her play today and some of the keys to your round? 
SHAUNA ESTES‑TAYLOR:   You know, The Concession Club, I knew it was a course that was built for Gaby Lopez.   She has a very full toolbox when it comes to mechanics, shot making, chipping, putting, all those things, so I thought it set up very nicely for her, so not surprised to see her in this place.   Unfortunately came up a shot short.   Just proud of what she did.   To go out and shoot 66 on this golf course is an impressive round of golf around this place, and just really proud of her and her hard work, and probably one of the hardest working kids I've ever had, so her work paid off and I'm just really, really proud of her. 

Q.   Where did you get in the most trouble?   Did it ever feel like you were in a tough spot? 
GABY LOPEZ:   Well, I think that the only time that I felt I was in a tough spot was No.4, the par‑3.   I missed my tee shot, but I was in a zone where I could get the up‑and‑down.   I missed in the right place and I knew I could get it up‑and‑down.   Hit it to four feet and made the putt.   I actually just didn't feel uncomfortable in every shot, and it was more of every yardage fit my club.   It was really special to see how everything fell into place. 

Q.   As a former athlete (inaudible) how does that feel? 
GABY LOPEZ:   You know, it's always been a dream of mine, to come here and being in contention to win this week, I really felt that it was going to be a special week.   It feels really, really exciting, and since the beginning, since I knew that Stacy Lewis won in her junior year in Florida, I don't know, I think that everything was kind of like matching and it was kind of like a throwback to me.   I don't know, I just really felt that everything was falling into place, and I'm really excited about how I played today and very focused object my team and my coaches.   I couldn't have done it without them.

Q.   What's next for you? 
GABY LOPEZ:   I am going to the U.S. Open qualifier next week.   I'm going to qualify in Houston, and then after that, I'm grateful that I got the exemption for the LPGA Northwest Arkansas Wal‑Mart Championship and that's going to be played the third week of June.   I'm going to play just big events.   I think it's just a preparation for the future, and can't be more thankful for this week. 

Q.   As a team how is the experience of getting down here and playing as well as you guys did, how does that prepare you guys for next year and the year after? 
GABY LOPEZ:   I think it's been like an eye‑opener, our weaknesses and our strengths, and it's just looking at the physics, where can we get sharper, where can we sharpen our part of the golf.   I think it's also an eye opener to see that eliminating the big numbers is key on this golf course, taking your pill and making a bogey and just get out of there. 
I don't know, I just really feel that it's going to just make us really stronger for the future, and I'm really excited for next year.   I can't wait.   I just wish all the teams the best of luck in match play, but watch out because we're going to come back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT