BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2018
Conrad Shindler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Conrad, excellent round out there.  Get some comments on your play.
CONRAD SHINDLER: It was just a good day.  It's been a round we've been looking for for a while.  Been struggling to kind of get one of those low ones where you get some momentum rolling.
We got it today and it was nice.  Had an eagle and a late birdie in there is always nice.
Q. Another year older, another year wise, huh?
CONRAD SHINDLER: You like to think it so.  See if we can act that way sometimes.
You know, it's just a number.  You know, it's encouraging because a lot of guys start to find their strides as they approach their early 30s, so to me there are a lot of good things ahead.
Q. What was it like playing with Brittany?
CONRAD SHINDLER: It was a pleasure, a treat.  It's a historic moment always when we have a girl play in a PGA TOUR event.  To get to have a front row seat in the group, it's a unique aspect.
A lot of people get behind her, but you also can get some fans out there rooting for you, so it's definitely nice to have.
Q. And describe her game for us.
CONRAD SHINDLER: It's really consistent.  You know, she does the same thing every shot.  She just knows where it's going to go.  Great short great.
Maybe the first day just a little (recording skip), but each day she gained confidence.  Hit a lot of good putts.  I think she made five birdies and had a great hole-out there on 17 for eagle.
Q. She calls herself chatty.  You guys seemed to talk it up on the course.  Did you enjoy it?
CONRAD SHINDLER: Oh, absolutely.  I'm chatty, and that's what helps me in my element when I'm playing well, is not thinking about golf as much, just kind of deviating away from it.
When it's time, we only spend about 30, 40 seconds on the shot.  These all I can really process in my mind, and then we go from there.
So it's nice to have someone else out there that you're strolling the fairways with talking to.
Q. She was very complimentary about your short game.  Give her some tips?
CONRAD SHINDLER: I'm not going to give another professional any short game tips.  My short game has come around here in the last few weeks.  Been putting a lot of hard work into it, so it's nice to see it working out.
Q. Anything else you want to add for today?
CONRAD SHINDLER: Just excited to go play more golf.  It's always an honor to play the weekend, so looking forward to it.
Q. What's the most interesting thing you guys talked about today?
CONRAD SHINDLER: Nothing too interesting.  You know, we do a lot of comparison, how are things on the little LPGA Tour compared to our TOUR.
We talked about I guess her pets.  Got a little off topic there.  But she's got a dog; we've got a couple dogs, my wife and I.  Probably about something like that.
Q. What kind of dogs?
CONRAD SHINDLER: We've got a lab-pit mix and a Catahoula Leopard Dog-Great Dane mix.
Q. Wow.
CONRAD SHINDLER: So big dogs.
Q. What are their names?
CONRAD SHINDLER: Harley and Lucy.
Q. Do you know what Brittany's dog's name is?
CONRAD SHINDLER: I don't know what her dog's name is.
Q. But you were talking about your dogs.  What hole...
CONRAD SHINDLER: That was early, that was probably on the 10th or 11th st hole we started talking about that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT