SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2017
Conrad Shindler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Had a pretty impressive back nine with an eagle in there for a 66.  Assess your opening round.
CONRAD SHINDLER: It was good.  Obviously we like where we are in the field right now.  We fought hard, took advantage of our opportunities, and made some nice putts.
Definitely nice to see some putts go in in the first round.
Q. How about the greens out here?  Heard a lot of buzz about them.  Tell us what you like about them.
CONRAD SHINDLER: Phenomenal.  The contours are very unique.  You've got to put it in the right place or you'll have some difficult putts.
The greens are so pure right now, like marble floors, so if you've got good lines and good speed, good things are going to happen.
Q. You're a guy who has played on a ton of different tours.  To be able to earn your PGA TOUR card through the Web.com last season, what kind of appreciation do you have that you apply to your game?
CONRAD SHINDLER: Massive, because it's just a journeyman game, and so few guys make it up here so fast now, especially having going through the Web.  We don't have Q-School anymore directly to the PGA TOUR, so you really appreciate the steps that have come along, all the unique atmosphere you've been a part of; playing in uncomfortable situations.
It's all attributed to the success we've had to get here.
Q. Let's talk about today, especially when you made the turn.  You went kind of crazy those first nine holes on the second nine, didn't you?
CONRAD SHINDLER: Yeah, I rolled in a nice 20-footer on 1; had a descent look on and it didn't go; 3 we made a nice 25-foot curler for eagle.
Hit a 7-iron to four feet on the next hole.
Then hit a nice wedge into a par-5; another birdie.
Just really I wouldn't say it was a crazy back nine; just kind a crazy little grouping of holes.  We got out of position on 8 but had a really nice up and down there.
Had a good look on 9; just left it a little short.
All in all, I'll take it.
Q. Yeah, good round.  As a PGA TOUR rookie, is it any different knowing you're playing in a PGA TOUR event?  You played a lot of college golf, a lot of Web.com.  You won on the Web.  Is this any different?
CONRAD SHINDLER: It is because the stands are bigger and sometimes there is more people.  I've gotten to play all over the world, and I've played on Saturday with Jordan Spieth at the Australian Open.  That was probably the most uncomfortable I've ever been, and I've used that a lot as a learning experience.
I've just gotten more comfortable.  I owe so much to the Web.com Tour for getting me here.  It puts me in a comfortable place out here, because you know it's a tournament and it's a tournament atmosphere, especially with galleries and structures, but just in a much more comfortable place, especially after last year.
Q. You're getting married a week from Saturday.  Be kind of special if you could somehow keep it together for three more rounds, right?
CONRAD SHINDLER: It would be very special.  I know it would make next week a lot less stressful.
We're looking forward to next week and it's going to be pretty special.
Q. Kind of a football question.  The Governor of Texas says he wants to restore the Texas/Texas A&M football rivalry.  Hasn't happened in five years, ever since you guys went to the SEC.  Are you in favor of that?
CONRAD SHINDLER: Absolutely in favor of that.  I actually grew up a die-hard Longhorn and converted over to the good side.
But that's just been such a culture of Texas football, and Texas is -- I would call it the football state.
The Ohio State Buckeyes will disagree, but I don't care.
You know, it's just been such a lifeblood of the state.  I remember growing up, every day after Thanksgiving -- eventually moved it on to Thanksgiving -- but watching that game.  It just had so much tradition and passion in it, so I definitely think it should come back.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT