VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 23, 2010
Francois Delamontagne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: It was a lovely day on a lovely course. It was a good start. I had a very, very solid putting today and in golf it's quite important to have a nice putting. 
 So 6-under is a very good start. I think the scores are going to be lower this week, so it's better to start with 6-under than level par. 

 Q. And these courses you know?
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Yeah, I played a few times, because I live like 20 minutes close. It's a great golf course, just unbelievable, and it's a great pleasure, it's great. 

 Q. It's like a hidden gem, it's tricky to find these courses but once you do, it opens up and there's a majesty about them. 
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: It's great. It's quite open for the tee shots and it's not very long, but you have to be very good for a second shot with the irons, because if you miss on the wrong side, you have an unplayable putt. Iron game is very important this week.

 Q. Only 20 minutes away, that sort of aids the relaxation and just the joy to come and play, doesn't it?
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Yeah, I feel like I play with a few friends at home. The difference is it's a tournament. But it's nice, I can see my daughters every night and sleep in my bed, some good food, so that's great. 

 Q. And does it enable you to stay relaxed in a situation that you've become all too used to over the years with the end of the season looming? 
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Yeah, I've had some big trouble with my tee shot for six months. I was coming back a little bit for two weeks now, so honestly, I don't care about the card and the Top-10 or anything. I just want to take some pleasure on the course. 
 And today was fun. It was very fun, I have some nice partners and score was good. So just continue like this. 

 Q. And that laissez faire attitude is because the game has been so poor or you've been used to things over the years and know what can happen?
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: No, the game was not poor, because on the range it was very solid. But off the tee -- so now I just try to take some pleasure with the tee shot and just continue to play like this. 

 Q. I have to ask about the formats on the Pro-Am side. Is it a partner that you know well? 
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Not really. But a friend and such a nice guy. Playing good and a little bit nervous on the front nine but hit a few good shots on the back nine. It was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT