PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 18, 2009
Francois Delamontagne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: 64, for sure, not this year, honestly I can't remember, but maybe last year, I can't remember where. But yeah, maybe at home.   
  
  Q. So makes it all the more satisfying.   
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: I hit the ball great for a few months, and I made a few cuts but I don't have the -- I didn't have the putting to shoot a score like this. So today is nice because it's probably my last event with next week. So I need points and it was very important to make a good score like this today.   
  
  Q. Tell us about your situation and any worries and fears.   
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: It's always tough. It's a little bit different than last year but very close to the same position. No, it's always tough, but I play very bad three or four first months of the season. So it's normal to be in this situation.   
 I hit the ball great for the last three or four months, but honestly I think it's normal to have a result like this after the last events. Last year it was a bit different because I didn't have a big confidence in my swing. The short game was okay but the swing was bad, and at the moment, the swing is quite good, so it's the same position but not exactly the same feeling.   
  
  Q. A little bit more tension, anxiety, or a little bit more comfort because your game is nicely on song.   
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: More comfort, because when I've got a tough shot, I just say I'm going to make the good shot. And last year this time, I had a tough shot or not have a good feeling. This time it was a very bad shot. So that's quite different.  
  
  Q. It probably helps having been through it once, not that you want to go through it again, but you know the experience.   
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Yeah, well, it's not my first year on Tour but it's not the first time I'm in this position.   
 So for sure, the experience is going to serve me for next week. But after the score today, I have a lot of confidence.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT