BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2009
Francois Delamontagne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Just was a very solid, long game, and I had a good putting on the short one, so that's the secret, to make the putts in these conditions. It was amazing, because it was so cold, and massive wind. 
 But you know, I'm from the Brittany in France, and there's a lot of wind, as well. I like to play in these conditions, but with five or six degrees more I prefer.

 Q. It's so bitterly cold, it's an attitude of mind as well as the good game that sees you through this, isn't it?
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: You have to be patient and just hit shot after shot and say, okay, I missed a shot but I'm going to miss another one. Just patient and concentrate on the routine and on the good line and everything. 

 Q. I know I'm looking back two days, but it's kind of relevant now what might have happened, had you not suffered that very, very strange double-bogey on the first day. 
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: I just missed the 3-wood a little bit on the left, and the ball rolled in the rough, took the path and goes down for 180 metres probably. And we were on the clock with John Paramor, and just at the ladies tee side, he told me, "What ball are you using, Francois?" 
 I say, why he ask me that? I say, "A Titleist one." 
 He said, "With a black dot?" 
 I said, "Yeah." 
 "It's there."
I said, "You are joking."
And he said, "No, I am sorry." So after, 4-iron, I missed 8-iron long of the green, chip and 2-putt for six, good six. 

 Q. You're not out of this now at 1-under par, but, had you not suffered that miss fortune on the first day, you would have been right in the mix here. 
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Yeah, but you know, it's a strange sport. There is one more day, and I think if I hit the ball like this tomorrow with the same surface on the green, it will be good. 

 Q. I think it's going to be a good position at the end of today and carry on this form, as you say, on the final day, you'll be there or thereabouts, might not win but still a very good finish. 
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Yeah, Robert is playing fantastic in the wind. He's 10-under, but I think to make a top three or a Top-5, I think it's possible tomorrow, especially if we have some similar conditions. Still wind for sure. If it's a good day tomorrow, tomorrow five or top three. 

 Q. You have been playing well in recent weeks without necessarily getting the break. 
 FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE: Yeah, I'm playing good. I think I just need to have the same attitude than today, and that's going to be good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT