SMURFIT EUROPEAN OPEN
June 30, 2005
Francois Delamontagne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE:  Yes I am. Last week was very good and I am still feeling the confidence of what I did in France. My swing is pretty good and my putting is still working well so that is very good.

On the course I was very positive last week and I have tried to keep that feeling going. I am swinging the club very well, only occasionally I have a little problem with my driving but that is not much to worry about. But the big difference in France and today was my putting. Also I finished eighth in the Irish Open and I putted well then too, when you putt well, it is a very different game.
Q. The other guys who have played this afternoon have struggled on the putting surfaces, but you seem not to have had any problems?
FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE:  Well, the rain made them a little soft and I did have a few problems on the greens with the longer putts, they were jumping a little bit and when that happens it is difficult to find the good pace but I thought they were pretty good.
Q. And you will be out on the best of the greens tomorrow morning, so you have a good chance?
FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE:  Well, that is true. If it doesn't rain tonight the course will be in fantastic condition tomorrow morning, so why not the same score tomorrow again? 10-under going into the weekend, that would do me nicely.
Q. You obviously enjoy playing in Ireland?
FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE:  Yes, very much. I did well in the Irish Open and I love playing in front of the Irish public, they know their golf very well and so it is pretty good.
Q. It is a good time for French golf at the moment, as well?
FRANCOIS DELAMONTAGNE:   Yes, my good friend, Gregory Havret, is doing well here and he did well last week too which was great. I am very happy for Jean Van de Velde that he is back on Tour because he is a fantastic player, and Jean-Francois Remesy had a fantastic win especially as he did not have the best of starts to the year. And Gregory, of course too, so it is all good.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT