AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2014
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. DELLACQUA/J. Zheng
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Could you describe what happened when you were ill, what you were feeling. 
JIE ZHENG:   I don't know.   It was seventh game.   I feel is so hot, my mentally is no working.   Sometime I watch the ball, I cannot focus to watch the ball.   Then, yeah, I lose the concentrate. 
Is very difficult for me, this weather. 

Q.   Where you feeling dizzy?
JIE ZHENG:   It's a little bit sick and also is, how do you say, the mental is not working I feel.   I just watch the ball and just hit it.   I don't know where I hit it. 
Also from the second set, my move is so bad.   I cannot move so fast. 

Q.   You were pointing to your heart.   Did you feel your heart was beating fast?
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, is fast.   I cannot deep breaths. 

Q.   What do you think about having to play in heat like that?   Do you think it was fair to be playing in those conditions?
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, I don't know.   So difficult because I were practice in Beijing.   I practice one month in Beijing.   Maybe they have 55 degrees here, so for me it was tough. 
But this is Australia Open.   This weather is for every player.   If I want to go better and better, I must be go, yeah. 

Q.   Were you scared at any point, fearing for your health? 
JIE ZHENG:   On the court, I don't thinking too much.   For sure I want to win this match because second round I was big fighting.   I really want to go far way. 
But for me I cannot do anything. 

Q.   On another day do you think the results of the match would have been different, if the weather was cooler?
JIE ZHENG:   I don't know.   If the weather is better, I think maybe I can play better and better.   But, you know, this is a Grand Slam.   You cannot change the schedule for this weather because every big player also need go to the court to play the matches, yeah. 
So maybe for me the experience next year I will be coming to already here, or I was training in outside court, yeah. 

Q.   So you'll change your preparations next year?
JIE ZHENG:   Maybe.   Maybe.   Because sometime is hard, you know.   I was traveling a lot the whole year.   Sometime I want to practice in hometown.   This is some problem, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT