WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2012
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/J. Zheng
  6‑7, 6‑2, 9‑7

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   If you could just take us through the match. 
JIE ZHENG:   Oh, it's a long match, and also it's a tough match because she has big serve.   I think it's very difficult against her on the grass court.
But I think today I play well.   Just few points I have some chances like the final set, first game, I'm 2‑1 up, and I have the three break points, but I missed, and in the final set 7‑All, my serve game is‑‑ the serve is not so well, yeah. 
But I think it's great match for me, also.

Q.   It was a very exciting final set.   You must be so disappointed that you weren't able to just finish it off. 
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah.   I really want to win this match, because I remember this is my third time against her in the Wimbledon, the Centre Court, so, yeah, I'm looking for what is today I think is very close to win.   So also gave me more confidence for looking for next month, the Olympic Games.

Q.   Serena gave you a big compliment.   She said that you always give her a tough match and that you're playing unbelievable.   She said "unbelievable on grass." 
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah.   After we finish the match, she just told me, You are crazy.   You are crazy. 
She say, Oh, this is a unbelievable match I think for us. 
So, yeah.   I just wish her can win this year (smiling).

Q.   What can you learn from playing against a player like Serena? 
JIE ZHENG:   Oh, she, I think, is ‑‑I don't know.   She is very danger player.   I cannot remember how many ace today she...
Yeah, I don't know. 

Q.   You must feel that your performance here gives you a lot of confidence for the Olympics when you come back. 
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah.   Of course, yeah, because she is very good player, and I play very close that match.
I think give me the more confidence for Olympic, and also I'm so happy for come back to the Centre Court and many guys is coming to support me and gave me the power to fighting. 
So thanks a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT