AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2012
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ZHENG/M. Bartoli
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You played very well today.   Are you feeling as confident as you were two years ago when you reached the semifinals?  
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, I think this year is a good start because I win Auckland and right now I win three match in Australian Open.   
So it probably give me the big confidence.   But I know every match is tough.   So I don't think too far.   I just want step by step.   
   
 Q.   Marion said you dominated completely today because you were extremely fast.   Have you been training in the off‑season with your running and speed or anything?  
JIE ZHENG:   I do the training too hard, so that's why I move so quick.   But I know Bartoli, she play so aggressive.   I play against her the many times before.   
So, yeah, my coach tell me make her move.   So today I think I do good.  
   
 Q.   How much playing that well against her is about anticipation, knowing where her ball is going to be before it gets there?   
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, I think today is very well.   Also I don't think I can win this match like today this easy.   But she's still good player.   She have big serve.   But today I think my return is so well, I don't miss too many return, and I push her, and I try to play more aggressive.   
So today I play well, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How important was Li Na's victory last year in Paris for you and the other Chinese players coming up?  
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, I think Li Na win a Grand Slam ‑ how do you say ‑ big news in China.   And also she in the final last year of Australian Open.   It's so good.   
So, yeah, I can feel after she win Grand Slam it's more the kids coming to the tennis court, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How about for yourself?  
JIE ZHENG:   For me?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
JIE ZHENG:   Maybe more confidence (laughter).   Yeah, because with lot years ago we practice together.   Few years ago we never thinking we can win singles Grand Slam.   
Yeah, I think also give me more confidence.   
   
 Q.   There are three Chinese women.   You say Li Na's victory last year is helping the sport.   Where are the men?  
JIE ZHENG:   It's hard question.   Yeah, many person is ask this question.   I don't know, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Your highest ranking so far is 15.   What is your goal this year?  
JIE ZHENG:   Oh, yeah, I just want step by step because last year I have the injury my wrist.   I do the surgery.   So this year, after here, my ranking is very close to 30.   So keep going, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You got off to a very fast start today.   You were up 4‑Love very quickly.   How important was that and how did you do that?  
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, I know before the match it's very tough match so I try the focus for every point and start to force points.   So I think I do the very good stuff for this game, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Could you sense her getting frustrated during the match?  
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Monday is Chinese New Year.   Obviously, you're playing Sara Errani.   How will you celebrate?  
JIE ZHENG:   New Year is coming.   But every year is in Australian Open.   
I hope I can win the next match because is the new Year.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How did your week in Auckland help you prepare for the Australian Open?  
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, I think Auckland is good start for the new year, I can win the title.   But also it's a little bit tired for me because I eight singles match already.   
But, yeah, I just want try my best and keep going.   
   
 Q.   You did a great video in Auckland where you dressed up like Jay‑Z.   Have you started listening to any more rap music?  
JIE ZHENG:   Oh, I think this not my style (laughter).   After my video, every player watch me don't say hello, say Yo, Yo.   
   
 Q.   So you're getting better at the dance thing?  
JIE ZHENG:   I need more practice (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT