BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2010
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/J. Zheng
  6-4, 4-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. That was quite a battle.   
 JIE ZHENG: Pardon?   
  
  Q. That was quite a battle there.   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I think today is tough match. Yeah, final set I think it looked like easy, but every game I have some chance. 4-3 game I have the break point, but I don't control. If I control, maybe I can go to the 3-love.   
 It's big different. But today I feel the final set I have a little bit tired because yesterday I play two match, two tough match. So it's not easy against her, because every ball is come back. I need to focus for every point.  
 So in the final set, I feel is my mentally is a little bit tired, yeah.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the second set? You won. Seemed like you kind of got a feeling for her serve.   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, second set she was 4-3-up, and I think about I need some change. Then I try to play more aggressive, give her more move, because if she stay there she have lot of spin for the forehand. She give me lots crosscourt.   
 So I think I have to serve well second set. But if I need start to play well like this one, I need more energy. Yeah, is more tough for me, so I need more fitness think about.   
  
  Q. Did you notice any weakness in Caroline's game? Maybe second serve is not so strong.   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, she second serve look like is not so strong. But she have good move and good baseline, so this is why she in now is No. 2 I think she win this match. Yeah, so...   
 Yeah, she is very young one and she can do so well. She is young and she can go to the No. 2 is not easy, so probably she have the good chance to go more and more.  
  
  Q. How do you like her chances in this tournament now?   
 JIE ZHENG: For her, this tournament?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I think semifinal is not easy for her, because Radwanska, she practice with Radwanska a lot. I know they both are good friends. So, yeah, is tough match. Because if she win, maybe is good chance for win this title.  
  
  Q. The first time I heard your name is when you beat Capriatti at the French Open, no?   
 JIE ZHENG: Yes.  
  
  Q. Do you remember that? Does it seem like a long, long time ago?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I think it's a long, long time.  
  
  Q. How did you do that? Were you surprised you were able to beat a big player like that?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, before is a little bit surprise, but right now I think it's more confidence because I have two time in Grand Slam semifinal.   
 I think this is give me more confidence and believe I can do the will. So, yeah, right now I so enjoy play with the good player, because in the big tournaments, every match is tough.   
 I need focus for every match. But sometime it's not easy because I'm no tutor, so I need mentally needs more stronger and focus for every point, yeah.  
  
  Q. But when you beat Capriatti, were you just a little girl then? Very young?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, just 12 years old. (laughter.) It's so young. It's long, long time.  
  
  Q. Was it a very important victory, a very important win for the players in China? It was maybe the first time a Chinese player beat a player who was very well-known.   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I think in my memory, is first time in French Open fourth round. Is big surprise for everybody, because before is no too much -- no Chinese player play on the WTA Tour.   
 But right now you can see have lots good players: Li Na and Peng Shuai. Also we have good doubles player.   
 So maybe few more years young one is coming up, because right now in China have many people like watch the tennis. Yeah, is big change.   
  
  Q. You lost today to Caroline because the execution was not so good of your play, or maybe if you plan again you will change the plan, the strategy?  
 JIE ZHENG: I think it's not easy if I want to beat her, but today I have a little bit tired. If my body is problem, maybe have some chance. But right now she have lot of confidence.   
 I can feel, because against her last year in Canada. So I win the two set, but this year I can feel she have lot of change on the court.  
  
  Q. What advice would you have for Caroline to beat Radwanska in the semi, and for Radwanska to beat Caroline?  
 JIE ZHENG: I think that this is from coach, not my job. (laughter.)  
 I just finish a singles, so I just thinking about tomorrow doubles, the semifinal, yeah.   
  
  Q. So what Radwanska have to do to beat Caroline, and what Caroline has to do to beat Radwanska, in your mind, both of them?  
 JIE ZHENG: I think is big difference Radwanska play the tennis, it's more smart than Caroline is every ball is come back no mistake. So probably is tough match, but I think Radwanska have lot more. A little bit more, 55 percent, this match. But is close. I don't know who win this match.  
  
  Q. So you cannot predict the win?   
 JIE ZHENG: No, nobody know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT