AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2010
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. HENIN/J. Zheng
  6-1, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. A disappointing afternoon for you. Could you give us your thoughts on the game and what did you learn from it?   
 JIE ZHENG: Well, I think she play so well today. For me, so surprise. She look like not second tournament.   
 I think the first set, start serve game, she not feeling so well. I have two time the breakpoint, but not convert. And after this she plays super. I never have chance, yeah.   
  
  Q. Were you nervous before the game? How did you feel before the game?   
 JIE ZHENG: Before the game I have little bit nervous because, you know, this is first semifinal in Australian Open. Also, she is my favorite player. I know is very tough match.   
  
  Q. So was it hard if she was your favorite player? You grew up watching her on the TV, have you?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I watch on the TV. But I have long time don't play with her. Then she serve is so hard, and the ball is sometimes slice, sometimes is quick. Yeah, for me it's difficult.   
 I think if she play like this, she have good chance for another Grand Slam title.  
  
  Q. How important do you think it's been for Chinese tennis for you and Na Li to be in the semifinals?  
 JIE ZHENG: I think it's important because you have a lot of people can watch the television for semifinal. I think that give the junior player believe he also can do like this one, yeah.   
  
  Q. What surprised you most about how well Justine played?  
 JIE ZHENG: She just played super, yeah. I hope she can win the Australia Grand Slam title, yeah. I think she do a lot, the fitness. She look like more stronger.   
  
  Q. Do you think she's stronger than before?  
 JIE ZHENG: I feel, yes.  
  
  Q. Which points?  
 JIE ZHENG: She serve is more stronger and she move faster. I feel I move so faster, but she's the better for me, yeah.   
  
  Q. What do you do now? How do you pick yourself up? Do you watch the video? How do you get over this?   
 JIE ZHENG: This match?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I want forget this match (laughter).   
 But the first time in the semifinal in Australian Open for me is very exciting. Also give me a lot believe, confidence I can do the better. And is good news I come back to the top 20 in the ranking. So I have the big chance I can play the more big tournaments then.   
 It's good for me.   
  
  Q. What kind of strategy or tactics did you prepare coming into the match?   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I try a lot on the court. Yeah, sometime I play more aggressive or sometime I try to give her some lob. But she plays good. No chance.   
  
  Q. Your coach is your husband, right?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Could you tell us like the role of your husband? Is he like a coach who is coming up with strategies or he's supporting you or he's your hitting partner?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, he sometime before the match warm me up with me. Then before this match he gave me the some new thing about the match. Not my play not good, just Justine play so good. I play not too bad, yeah.   
  
  Q. Will we see you in Indian Wells?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT