AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2010
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ZHENG/M. Kirilenko
  6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about making your second Grand Slam semifinal; your first in Australia? Must be a happy moment for you.   
 JIE ZHENG: Yes, is so happy. But last point she do the double-fault, not really.   
 For me, is amazing, you know. Is tough match because I know she win Maria Sharapova in first round. She is getting up.   
 I think is big chance for the semifinal. So start of match I have little bit nervous, but I do the well. I can win in two sets.  
  
  Q. What was good about your game? What did you like about your game?  
 JIE ZHENG: I like today I play more aggressive, yeah, make lots the winner. Looked like strong on the court, yeah.   
  
  Q. Maria said you were very quick around the court, probably one of the quickest players. Do you work on that or are you just naturally fast?  
 JIE ZHENG: Of course, I'm not too tall so I need more footwork, move so quick.   
  
  Q. You watched Graf and Seles when you were little to be inspired for tennis. Which one did you like more? How much tennis was shown on Chinese television?   
 JIE ZHENG: Yes, Graf is my favorite player, number one. Justine is number three.   
 I think I in the semifinal is help tennis go up in China. We have Li Na, she have chance in semifinal. This is the first time two Chinese player in quarterfinal. Is big surprise in China, I think so.   
  
  Q. How much tennis was shown on tennis back 15, 18 years ago?  
 JIE ZHENG: It's big difference, I think so. Yeah, because 15 years ago, I think is no too much chance watch tennis. Only we can watch the final in Grand Slam. So right now maybe if you start first round, you can watch on the TV in China, so is big difference.   
  
  Q. You said Graf is your favorite and Justine is your third favorite. Who is number two?   
 JIE ZHENG: Number two is Roger (laughter).   
  
  Q. Justine is your favorite current active player on the women's tour. You're coming up against her. What makes her your favorite player? And how do you think you're going to compete against her?   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, first of all, I favor her for her is have the so strong the mentally. I watch her play always - how you say - enjoy to watch her for play.   
 For second I think is tough match for me, is big challenge. But I like it. I want do something, yeah.   
  
  Q. How would you say your styles differ?  
 JIE ZHENG: For this match or what?   
  
  Q. In general.   
 JIE ZHENG: No difference. I think just same.   
  
  Q. Will you have to be more attacking? Kirilenko made a lot of errors in the second set. Will you play your own game?   
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, second set I think she try do something, then she play more aggressive, then she tried to go to the net a lot.   
 Yeah, for me it's tough, you know, have one game, my serve game is Love-40. So this game I think is very important. I come back to the Love-40, and game is going to 4-2. It's gave me more confidence and more belief I can finish the two sets.   
  
  Q. What were the emotions when you heard Henin was coming out of retirement?   
 JIE ZHENG: Henin? Yeah, she just come back. So second tournament, I think. Yeah, she do this so well. Every match is so tough, but she coming to the semi, so you know she always strong for the body and mentally.   
 It's tough for me, but I'm so happy I can play against her, because her is my favorite player. If I lost, I don't have everything for lost, I just want do my tennis.   
  
  Q. You mentioned Roger Federer is your most favorite male player. He watches videotapes. How do you learn about tennis? How do you get the strategy?  
 JIE ZHENG: I watch the Roger play yesterday against Lleyton Hewitt. It's great match. He play unbelievable. I don't know how do you say? He can play fast, he can play slow. Yeah, I think he is big player on the tour right now, yeah.   
  
  Q. Is it easy to work with your husband as a coach?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, he is my coach. But now I have another two new coach. One from America. He teach me a lot just for serve. Another one from China also.   
  
  Q. I didn't understand. Two other husbands or two other coaches?  
 JIE ZHENG: Two other coach (smiling).   
  
  Q. China is playing next week Fed Cup. Are you playing in Slovakia? What do you think about the Slovak team?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I play against Slovakia. Slovakia is have Hantuchova and Cibulkova. Is big match. I don't want to think too much. I just want to play the Australia Open. After Australia Open, I have lots time to thinking how to play.   
  
  Q. Are you enjoying the attention that goes with being a semifinalist here?  
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I'm so enjoy because every match is tough. I start the first round is three set, the second round is three set. Today is good news, I can win easy two set. I hope I can go far way, but I know is big challenge. But just step by step, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT