AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2010
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ZHENG/A. Bondarenko
  7-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It was your first straight-sets win. Was it your toughest? And how did you win it?
 JIE ZHENG: I think my body and mind is ready today for tough match. Because I know her is very tough player because she just win the last week Hobart. 
 I tried keep fighting to force it, so I'm happy for today I do the will. 

 Q. This is a great tournament for Chinese tennis. How long do you think it will be before one of you can win a Grand Slam?
 JIE ZHENG: For singles? 

 Q. Yes. 
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I think Australia is lucky for me because I win the first Grand Slam doubles title in Australia. So I'm so - how do you say - happy I in quarterfinal of Australia also. 
 But I think we can go the far way because you can see Li Na in the fourth round. I hope we can be in the semifinal for both Chinese player, yes. 

 Q. Is that a possibility, that you could both get that far? 
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, you know, now is in the quarterfinal. You don't know which one have the chance. I think is everybody have the big chance for in the semifinal. 
 So I don't want think too far. I just want focus for every point, then go to every match, yeah. 

 Q. Tennis is still a fairly new mainstream sport in China. Do you think you've come along very quickly?
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I feel is very quickly going up, the tennis, in China, because you can see have the good tournament, China Open. 
 From last year is coming up, so you can see lot of the Chinese newspaper coming from China. I think we need more the top player for support the sport in China. 

 Q. Why do you think it's developed so quickly?
 JIE ZHENG: I think it's important from 2004, Li Ting and Tian Tian win the gold medal from the Olympic game. 

 Q. Very strong with the women, but there are no men. 
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, is hard question. (Smiling.) Everybody want know. 

 Q. Do you know why? 
 JIE ZHENG: Maybe men need more hard working. I don't know. (Laughter.) I hope have the men because we can play the mixed doubles, so... 
 Hope so. 

 Q. Do you practice just alone with your own instructor, or do you practice with other Chinese players?
 JIE ZHENG: Before the Olympic, we practice in national team. We practice together. Then after Olympic we practice in different city. I practice in Beijing a lot. 

 Q. Do you prefer to be by yourself?
 JIE ZHENG: Pardon? 

 Q. You prefer to practice by yourself, to have yourself a career?
 JIE ZHENG: Yes, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT