CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2013
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   What's your experience playing with Sania?   Did it help today since you made semifinals just before the US Open?   And have you decided who you'll play with next year?   Will you think about playing with her sometime in the future?   
JIE ZHENG:   (Translated from Chinese)   Actually, we have played two quarterfinal US Open, and we were partnering with each other in last months.   We have a better understanding of each other.   Based on today's performance, she has a better understanding of me than I did.   
Also, to be honest, I didn't work out the schedule next year.   After I finish the match in Osaka I will have several days off.   If I have an opportunity, I would like to work her because we have a very good performance.   
   
 Q.   When you guys were up 4‑3 in the first set, you lost two straight games on the deuce point.   Would you say that was a big turning my in the match?  
JIE ZHENG:   (In English.)   Actually, we have 4‑2 in the final ‑‑ first set.  
   
 Q.   From 4‑3 the two games were at the deuce point, so it kind of could have gone either way.   So from that, obviously it seemed like a big momentum shift.   And then from the rest of the second set, did you feel like there was a carryover from those games?  
JIE ZHENG:   (In English.)   Yeah, of course.   The first set we played really close.   We have many chance to win the game but the point sometimes you need a little bit lucky and something like that.  
Then after we lost the first set, I feel the Sania and Cara are more confident and come back because they win in Tokyo.   So, yeah, it's not easy against this team.   
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to have a person like Li Na in Chinese women's tennis?   Do you struggle to fill in the void?   Do you think you and the rest of players can sort of take that step?   
JIE ZHENG:   (Translated from Chinese)   I enjoy the feeling of playing matches here in China because we have so many spectators and friends here in China.   I don't regard it as a pressure.   I think it is a gradual progress made in the past couple of years.   I can't make sudden progress overnight.  
China Open is getting better and better, and also the women's level is getting better and better as well.   
THE MODERATOR:   Chinese questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Actually, after this match, your time in China Open has ended as well.   If you were asked to have a wrap‑up of your performance, how much would you score?  
JIE ZHENG:   Actually, I hate to have summary.   Personally speaking, I think I'm not satisfied with the first match I played for singles.   
For women's doubles I don't partner with her for a long time.   If you ask me to give an overall score, I would say 7.   
   
 Q.   Actually, now that you mention that, seems that everybody want to partner with you; is that right?   
JIE ZHENG:   No, I don't think so.   Everybody is looking for the right partner to work with.   For Asian players, they prefer to work with Asian players.   
I prefer to work with them both, but I'm not sure whether they have a similar schedule.  
For Sania, she only play women's doubles, so sometimes if I partner with her I will not catch up with her schedule.   
So in that case, I haven't decided who I'm supposed to play with.  
After I play this match I'm going to have several days off, and then I will work out the decision later on.   
   
 Q.   I want to ask, how did you view the progress made by Peng Shuai and Su‑Wei Hseih?   
JIE ZHENG:   I think they have a very good performance.   They have a very good result recently.   
But actually, they started to work together a couple years ago and they have a very good result.   Most importantly I think we have shared a culture.   Maybe very much easier for us to communicate with each other.   We have similar life habit and thinking.  
For women's doubles, what's really important is teamwork.   So we have to have a very seamless communication with each other.   I think to have a very shared cultured and background and thinking is very much comfortable for us to cooperate with each other.   
Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Just now you mentioned that you're ready for the practice in the winter season.   Li Na has a very good result this season.   She said that that's very much related to the preparation during the winter season.   Do you have a plan to take similar physical exercises during the winter season, and do you ever try to ask any coach to give you some instructions in this regard?   
JIE ZHENG:   Actually, I don't quite understand your message by asking this question.   Can you give me a very straightforward question.   
The practice in winter is very important for professional players.   It's common sense for all of us.   For me, I think what's really important is to improve the physical energies during the winter season.   
But most importantly, it will help me to recover quickly from the matches.   I can tell when I get older it takes longer for me to have a full recovery; therefore, I need more exercises during the winter season which can enable me to have very good physical fitness in professional matches.   
   
 Q.   Are you ready to participate in the Shenzhen tournament?   
JIE ZHENG:   I didn't work out my schedule for next year.   
   
 Q.   Everybody is looking for your work Yan Zi.   
JIE ZHENG:   She is based in Beijing right now.   She's in Beijing now and she came over to visit me a couple days ago.   
Actually, Yan Zi does not have any plans to participate in a tournament because she is a new mother right now.   She's going to stay focused on her baby right now.   We are yet to have the schedule to work together with her.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned that you are going to work out your schedule for next year.   Actually, when we interview Carlos, Li Na's coach, he said he's going to reduce participation in the matches next year.   Have you ever decided to reduce the frequency of tournaments and then try to improve the quality?  
JIE ZHENG:   Yes.   In previous two press conference I said it to you, that next year I'm going to try to reduce the tournaments for singles.   I'm going to try to keep it to 20 matches.   
For doubles, I'm going to only play the Grand Slam or WTA final or high level tournaments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT