WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2008
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. ZHENG/A. Ivanovic
6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What are your feelings after that win?
 JIE ZHENG: It's great, because before I don't thinking I can win two set. I feel it's a tough match because she have the big serve and big forehand. 
 But in the court I just try keep going. I just try tell me she's the better player, I need a hundred percent for play the every point. 

 Q. You are the very first person from Asia to put out a world No. 1 at a Grand Slam event. How does it make you feel, and how confident are you for the next round?
 JIE ZHENG: I feel for me I'm so happy. I'm exciting, because last year I'm injuring for my ankle. I miss the Wimbledon. Now I just come back the half year. I can play like this and I'm very surprise. 
 I don't know how to play the next round. 

 Q. You will play the Hungarian lady. 
 JIE ZHENG: I just try my best and keep going. 

 Q. Did you go out there hoping to win, or did you have a particular plan that you thought might be able to beat her?
 JIE ZHENG: I felt today I had the best serve, the better backhand for her, because I know she had the big forehand. I try to give the ball more to the backhand for her, yeah. 

 Q. Tennis is rapidly growing in your country. How excited will they be back in China about this result?
 JIE ZHENG: I feel now the tennis in China is more people for support because the Tian Tian and Li Ting win the 2004 Olympic gold. I feel the match is good for the Chinese because I know my parents and friends can see the TV in China for this match. 

 Q. Are you playing on the Olympic team?
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, of course. 

 Q. You already made the team before this tournament?
 JIE ZHENG: Yes. 

 Q. How well-prepared is the Chinese team for the Beijing Olympics?
 JIE ZHENG: Maybe this is my last tournament before the Olympic. After this I need to go back to the Beijing for be ready for play the Olympic because, you know, we want to try the best in Olympic. 

 Q. Were you surprised that she did not play better than she did?
 JIE ZHENG: I feel today sometime she serve is no good. I feel she serve today was just so-so. That give me chance for play more aggressive.

 Q. On the return?
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah. 

 Q. Were you aware that Ana had come within one point of losing two days ago?
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I watched the match. The second match point she is really lucky for the net. 

 Q. Did that cross your mind at all today as the match went on and you closed in on the victory?
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I feel the last match I watched against Ivanovic gave me more - how to say - belief because I see it's very close. Maybe I think I have some chance.

 Q. Did you have the belief, before you got on court, that you could play your best tennis now?
 JIE ZHENG: Yes, of course, I believe, but I didn't believe I could win two sets. I think maybe tough, maybe three sets and close. But I want win the match, for sure. 

 Q. Ana told us that it was difficult for her to play you because the balls were so low, that that was especially difficult for her. Was that a strategy or a tactic you had specifically for Ana, or is this the way you prefer to play the ball always?
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, I think maybe she's right because the courts no jump too high. I stay low. It's tough for her. 
 But I like the grass. This is why I can win the match. 

 Q. As well as you play on grass, why not think, If I play this well maybe I could go further in the tournament?
 JIE ZHENG: Further in the tournament? 

 Q. Win more matches in the tournament. 
 JIE ZHENG: Hmm, I don't think too much because, you know, if the player think too much, maybe no good for me. 
 Because in China is no grass court, but every time I play the grass court I feel is a perfect one. So I like one. I hope I can go to the far way, win the more match. 

 Q. On television you thanked your husband. Is he your coach as well?
 JIE ZHENG: Yeah, he is my singles coach. Very thanks for him because before my serve is no good. He gave me the more support for practice my serve. I feel now is much better. I can serve. I can have more winner. It's good for me. 

 Q. Will you play both singles and doubles in the Olympics?
 JIE ZHENG: Yes. 

 Q. So now that you've played so well on grass, maybe they should play the Olympics on grass. 
 JIE ZHENG: But Olympic court is hard court. No time for make the grass court now. 

 Q. How significant is it for you and for the Chinese to do well in Beijing?
 JIE ZHENG: You know, we practice always in Beijing. Maybe we like the court, but the courts new one. So maybe after the Wimbledon we can go back to practice the new court. 

 Q. How important is it for you and the Chinese to do well there?
 JIE ZHENG: I don't know. I never played. 

 Q. When you won there was a little smile, but sometimes when we see the girls win they're screaming and jumping. You were a little more shy. Is that normal for you?
 JIE ZHENG: No, it's a big surprise. But maybe the Chinese people no like this one. 
 It's very tough. You know, after the surgery, if you want to come back is so tough. You need hard working every day and maintaining body, hard working. So tough for me. 

 Q. When the world comes to Beijing for the Olympics, what is the one thing you would most like the world to learn about your country?
 JIE ZHENG: I felt today the match gave me more belief for play the Olympic, yeah. Nothing, just like this one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT