AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2013
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ZHENG/S. Stosur
  6‑4, 1‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You came back from 2‑5, two breaks down, five games in a row.   
JIE ZHENG:   In the final set 2‑5, I was thinking first time I played in center court is 2006.   I thinking, How many times I can play like this court?   I need to keep fighting and enjoy the match.   
Yeah, just too simple.   It's amazing I can come back.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell me something about your next round?  
JIE ZHENG:   I know her.   We played the doubles last year in Dubai.   Also we're good friends.   She call me J.Z.; I call her J.G.   
So, yeah, I think it's tough match because these few years she coming up quick.   She has a big serve and a big forehand.   For me I think is tough match.   
But I just finish today.   I don't have too many time thinking for next round.   So maybe tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little bit about your tennis growing up in China, where you get this fighting spirit?   
JIE ZHENG:   Step by step.   First one I think after 2004, Tian Tian and Li Ting win gold medal for Olympics, and then Li Na win the Grand Slam singles.   
Yeah, right now in China, many tennis club is coming up.   Also many kids is coming to the tennis court.   
I think is a big change after a few years before.   
   
 Q.   Where do you learn this fighting spirit?   Were you always like this when you were young?  
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, I was young.   I know I'm not tall, I'm not strong.   My coaches tell me, If you want to go far way, you need keep fighting for every ball and focus for every point.   
So, yeah, this is my match.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're playing well enough to get to the finals again?  
JIE ZHENG:   Today I feel Sam Stosur is play much better for last week.   Kick serve and the big forehand.   Also backhand slice is give me the big trouble.   
But today I try to play more aggressive.   I try to go to the net, give her some pressure, yeah.   
I think this is my coaches tell me give her some the pressure, and this way is for the key for win this match.   
   
 Q.   What do you think happened at 5‑2?   Was it you turning your game around or did Sam seem to fall away?  
JIE ZHENG:   Yeah, in the 5‑2 I have the one time I think in maybe all is no good for me.   But, you know, last week I played the Sam Stosur in Sydney.   The second set also is 5‑2; I come back to play the tiebreak.   
So, yeah, I think the match give me the confidence, tell me I need keep fighting and maybe I have chance to come back.   
   
 Q.   We've seen your mum on the practice court.   Can she play tennis?  
JIE ZHENG:   Not my mom.   I think you see the lady is my doctor.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT