CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2012
Jie Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. VECINO/J. Zheng
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   In the first set, especially in the first four games, you have very good performance but after which your performance failed.   What might have been the reason?
JIE ZHENG:   Well, like you said, in the very beginning I had a very good performance, I mean, good fitness, but when I have two break in my service game I don't seize the opportunity.
But the opponent is taking the forehand topspin but she has a very flat, you know, ball.   In that case, I'm not in good rhythm to fight against her.   That's why I'm a little bit rush.   That's why I have a lot of unforced errors.

Q.   Actually, we see your opponent in this game through the qualifying matches.   How did you prepare the match in advance?   Also, to decide to participate into the WTA finals in Sofia, what's your arrangement next?
JIE ZHENG:   I didn't play against her before.   Even we don't practice with each other before.   I can only view her, you know, match video.   But sometimes to see how she plays different from the real situation she's ‑‑well, actually, her ranking is improving pretty fast this season. 
For the main draw matches, every single player have the potential to win.   Doesn't matter she's coming from the qualification matches.   Next we have Osaka matches.   I will go there.   The reason I will go there is I really want to go to the WTA final, and also I need to go to Luxembourg, Osaka, Linz matches, and there I will decide whether I will be qualified to go to Sofia based on the points I have already earned. 

Q.   How did you make evaluation to your rise in performance in this season?   If you happen to penetrate to top 20 or 25, how are you going to try to make one more step forward?
JIE ZHENG:   Generally this year I personally believe that I have very good performance, although I have some injury.   I'm very much satisfied with my ranking of top 25 this year, but I still believe that we have so much room for further improvement.
That is to say first if I need to improve my service, especially in this year.   I have a lot of chances to gain points.   Unfortunately I didn't guard it, and I don't have too much change to, you know, control the placement of the balls.   I have to improve further. 

Q.   After first set, what did your coach tell to you?   Li Na take look at notes.   Do you have similar habit?
JIE ZHENG:   I think every single players have different habit, so when I communicate with my coach ‑‑can you hear our conversation?   Because I noticed that he's using a microphone. 
Actually, my coach, asked me to show more patience during the match, because he or she knows that my opponent will give me a lot of difficulty.   I get used to stand close to the baseline, and in that case he or she asked me to give full play to my strategy.
But actually in today's match, my opponent have very deep, you know, attack to the baseline.   That's why I failed to give full play to my advantages.   That's why I'm always in a rush.   I have a lot of unwanted errors.
He asked me to be more patient.   Actually in the second set I tried to improve a little bit after all.   I don't have much training time to stand two meters away from the baseline, so I always stick to the one that I'm good at.
That is to say I'm just dominated by the rhythm of my opponent.   I don't come back to my rhythm or pace.

Q.   Did you feel in WTA we have a lot of junior or young players that are rising?   In past, people are very much impressed by your strong will.   Will that be still very important power for you to move forward?
JIE ZHENG:   I think to play over every single ball is my virtue and my spirit, but if we are playing as a professional player for rather long time definitely we will have challenges from the young players.   It's the same case for us, that is to say, in the very beginning participating in the professional tournament we have to challenge the old players as well, but if you want to stand rock solid in professional tournament and then to improve your ranking throughout the world, you have to work persistently. 
I personally believe that experience is also a very important factor for all players like us to win in some matches.   It's a very important weapon.
However, for professional players, for every single season it's long, almost one year.   It's hard to guarantee that we have wonderful performance for every single matches.   Game is like this, or play is like this.   You can't guarantee every single match to win.   What we are gonna concern is the overall ranking but not single match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT