ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 15, 2015
Mohammad Tauqir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Just talk about today's match, Tauqir, difficult start given the conditions, or how would you describe the 46 for 6?  MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: I think we wanted to win the toss and bowl first.  Also, yes, the wicket early on was assisting the seam bowlers.  It was swinging and seaming.  I think our batters could not cope up with that first bowling and seam and swing.  I think it was our recovery from 46 for 6 to 178 or 175 was a decent recovery, but it was not enough runs on the board.   Q.  You must be pretty pleased.  You had a hundred run partnership there and there was some decent bowling.  Maybe it wasn't the result you wanted, but if you look at it overall, would you say you competed in part not just in this match but in the tournament as a whole and you're pretty happy?  MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yeah, I think it was a satisfactory performance from us.  We know we could have done better than this, but overall it was a satisfactory performance, I think.  Especially in our batting department.  I think it was not as consistent as it should have been.  I think even today 250-plus runs would have been a very, very challenging toss for West Indies.   Q.  If you just look back on to the six matches in this tournament, what would you say would be the highlights of UAE's campaign in this World Cup?  MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: I think it was bits and pieces, I think.  But consistently under Javed's done very well throughout the tournament.  Shaiman Anwar were very consistent, and the (Indiscernible) was good.  There were a few positives.  I think overall our bowling department was pretty consistent in every game.  I think it's a little bit of fielding and the batting department that needs a bit of improvement. But we take a lot of positives from the whole event, and it was overall a good learning experience for us.  We have thoroughly enjoyed this tournament.   Q.  Also, can you just talk a bit more about the partnership between Javid and Aziz today?  Secondly, what is the plan for yourself personally and Khurram, both 43 years old?  I'm sure you're not looking forward to another World Cup, but what is the plan now for both of you?  MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: I think, first of all the partnership was amazing, and it saved us a lot of embarrassment and saved the day.  Both Nasir and Amjad have batted superbly well.  It was required.  I think, again, it's a World Cup record partnership of 107 runs and seven wickets, amazing batting from both of them. Regarding myself and Khurram, I don't know about Khurram, but I think we have done a lot of hard work during the last eight to ten months in preparation of this tournament, and I feel pretty fit and would like definitely to continue playing as long as I'm enjoying the game, and I think so would Khurram also I think, yeah.   Q.  When I interviewed your Coach Aaqib Javed he also picked a couple of games he thought you guys should have won.  How does he feel about the whole performance?  MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: I think he's very, very happy, satisfied with the team's performance.  It would have been very good if he would have won one or two games.  But it had been unlucky that we couldn't, but I think he's happy with the team's performance.   Q.  If you had to pick one moment over the last six weeks that you'll remember for the rest of your life, what would it be and why?  MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: I don't know.  I think overall the whole tournament has been very, very special for the whole team.  We really enjoyed the whole tournament.  But I think one moment that would have changed the game was I think Kevin O'Brien's catch that got dropped.  If that catch would have been taken, I think we would have definitely won that game. But overall, we have definitely enjoyed the whole tournament.   Q.  Would you say that the spell faced by you guys from Morne Morkel and Dale Steyn later was the toughest part of the World Cup for you guys?  MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: I think yes, it was.  At the same time I'm very thankful to them also for bowling the way they bowled to us.  I think by facing them it gave us a lot of confidence.  I think that inning was a highlight for us, and we almost played 48 overs, 49 overs in that match.  So, yes, it was the most hostile bowling that we have faced in this tournament.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT