ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 8, 2015
Mohammad Tauqir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So your first game on Wednesday against Australia.  Obviously good to test yourself against the best?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yeah, looking forward to that game.  We've been practicing, we've been training hard over the last six months.  So, yeah, looking forward to play Australia at NCG.Q. Your goals for the tournament, does the team have a goal in mind?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yes, of course.  We'll take every game very, very positively.  We'll play every game positive, and we're looking to have at least one or two wins from this tournament.Q. You obviously start off with Zimbabwe and Ireland early on in the tournament.  So that's important to start off on a good note?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yeah.  Yes, of course.  We are looking to do well in these two games also.  Last week in New Zealand we played a few games there and a couple of warm-up matches here.  It will give us definitely good exposure of condition and climatized with all these conditions here.  So, yeah, looking forward to these two games and I would like to start on a good note and make an impact.Q. Do you expect that you'll have some support from back home?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yes, of course.  Yeah, definitely.  Why not?  We're very lucky that we're a team of a few nationalities, so it's a very diversified culture back home, and yeah, we have a lot of support back home.Q. You came into the tournament with good form with a good series against Afghanistan?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yeah.Q. That's a positive especially in four days ODI to hopefully get another win under the belt?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: Yes, of course.  Yeah, back home we played four and able to achieve one result.  We had a good game against New Zealand as well in Dubai, and against Central District also.  That was a win also.  Yes, as we said, we went Australia and we'd like to be very, very positive and rubbing shoulders with all these big boys will definitely help us increase our -- enhance our exposure.  And yes, one more win against before we start the tournament and one more win against Afghanistan was definitely helpful.Q. Will it be daunting playing at the NCG?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: No, not really.  But all the boys are very, very excited and confident and positive yeah, so it's a dream come true for all of us.Q. On a personal note, how does it feel to captain your country in a World Cup?MOHAMMAD TAUQIR: I'm honored.  It's a privilege to be leading a country in a World Cup, and it gives me a lot of sense of pride and national motivation.  So, yes, definitely it's a sense of pride.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT