U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 2018
Sarah Jane Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The weekend didn't end the way you would like, but still T-5.  Give us an assessment of the way today went.
SARAH JANE SMITH: Yeah, I mean yesterday I was pretty happy with the day.  I felt like I hit the ball very nicely, which was comforting, just didn't roll any putts in.
Today I hit a few more squirrelly shots.  I don't know, I think I ran out of gas on the back nine.  Such a big week, I think.  Things weren't going the right way and I conked out a little bit.
Q. In a situation like that, does it help that the person who is carrying your bag is your husband?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I think so.  Sometimes it is, sometimes we are equally as into the moment.  So maybe it's sort of, I guess, one way or the other.  Duane did a great job.  He always does.
Q. As you started today, there was still hope if you could shoot a low score and Ariya goes the other way, you could be in the mix.  How do you keep the tenacity?  How do crew keep your nose to the grindstone?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I didn't do a very good job of it today.  I've got to figure out a way to putt a little better under pressure.  I feel like I'm putting well.  I holed a lot of really nice putts the first two days.  I just got a little tentative over the weekend.  I mean, it really showed up.  I left a lot of putts short.  I hit a lot of really goods shots.  There was a lot of opportunities, which I think that was the disappointing part.  I did give myself some chances but never gave a putt a chance.
Q. How about the learning experience?
SARAH JANE SMITH: Obviously it feels a little disappointing right now.  In reality, I missed five cuts in a row like six weeks -- over the last six weeks.  So I feel like if you would have said after Kingsmill when I had missed my fifth one in a row, would you take a Top 5 at the U.S. Women's Open?  I think I might have taken it.  I have got to think of it that way, that I have lot of good progress in the last two weeks alone.  Hopefully this is setting me up for a nice summer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT