U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2018
Sarah Jane Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was kind of the story for you today?  How would you describe the day for yourself?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I felt really good, surprisingly.  I felt like I kept my nerves under control and hit the ball pretty nice on the front nine by a couple of shots and gave myself a lot of opportunities.
I think the nerves showed up in my putting.  I didn't feel too bad, but I think when you are not getting the ball to the hole it probably proves that you are not letting it go and a bit of freedom in the putting.  Hopefully I can hit a few putts tonight and get that nice flow going for tomorrow.
Q. You gave yourself some nice chances there.  Is it tough when you don't convert like that?  What is the challenge when that happens early?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I think so.  I think if you see them going in, it obviously gives you more confidence.  When you keep hitting the ball close and you are not making them, it's kind of like -- it in a bad way brings in thoughts of like if I do mess up, I'm not making the putts.  The last two days I was hitting the ball nicely, making putts.  There is that freedom to know that I'm putting well, so if you miss a fairway or miss a green you can make a good up-and-down.  It can make your confidence go down a little bit.
Q. How do you approach tomorrow?
SARAH JANE SMITH: Well, I have nothing to lose   tomorrow.  I'm happy with the way I handled my nerves today.  Hopefully I can go into tomorrow with that little bit more confidence, not knowing this morning how I was going to handle it.  As much as you try to enjoy it, when you are that nervous it's not enjoyable.  But today it was.  That's something less to think about.
Come out here tomorrow and know that I will feel better.  I just got to give myself a chance.  There's nothing -- I was just saying I know what it feels like to lose.  I was talking to my coach this morning.  He was like you know what that feels like and it's not that bad.  I've handled it fine.  So just see what happens tomorrow and get the ball to the hole.
Q. I know you are focused on your game.  What were your observation be in matching Ariya today?
SARAH JANE SMITH: She's a spectacular player, obviously.  Her length is just one part of her game.  She hits it a long way, but her short game is impeccable.  She rolls the ball beautifully.  She's just the whole package.  It was fun to watch her today.
Q. There was a lot of moving parts around you all day.  There were a lot of fans.  What was that like?  Were you able to block it out?
SARAH JANE SMITH: The people are fun.  I'm not used to the camera like right there.  I don't know what to do.  I don't know where to look.  Do I say hi?  That's something that's kind of new.  I'm used to cameras behind and that.  It's a lot maybe bigger this week than normal.  It's kind of just like write in my yardage book or something.  That's something to get used to.
Q. Do you feel better prepared to handle that tomorrow?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I think so.  I feel like I'm -- even though the score doesn't show a great round, I feel like I felt better than I felt in that position before.  Knowing that I think will make tonight easier, tomorrow morning easier, then I'll be a bit freer on the greens tomorrow.
Q. What is your general attitude heading into the final round?  Nothing to lose, maybe?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I think so.  Especially now.  I'm four shots behind.  I know Ariya is going to go out and have a great day.  That is a given.  Obviously I'm going to need a really good day tomorrow to have a chance.  I showed early today that I can give myself a lot opportunities.  If I have a good day on the greens, you never know.
Q. Being in the final group of a major, how much are you looking forward to that?
SARAH JANE SMITH: It was fun today.  Obviously a little more comfort.  Ariya is amazing.  She is probably one of nicest people out here.  I have known Su a lot longer from being from Australia.  It was a nice way to ease into it.  To be out with Ariya tomorrow will be great.  Be a fun day.
Q. What did you and Duane talk about today?
SARAH JANE SMITH: Not much outside of golf.  Just silly things.  We have been having Thai every night because we had it on Wednesday night and then shot 5-under.  We should probably have it again.  Then shot 5-under.  So I'm kind of -- I love Thai; it's one of my favorite foods.  I'm kind of relieved I don't have to have it tonight.
Q. Are you superstitious in general?
SARAH JANE SMITH: Yes.  I had Thai three nights in a row.
Q. Do you have any other little things that you do?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I'm not usually that ridiculous with food and things.  But I have the same marker and I always have four tees.  But there's a system.  The four tees have to run out before I replace the four tees, which drives Duane crazy.  If I break the last one on 18, then I need four more.  It's kind of stupid.
Q. What is the marker?  Does it have anything special on it?
SARAH JANE SMITH: It's a penny.  But my Pa gave it to me.
Q. How long have you had it for?
SARAH JANE SMITH: He actually gave me -- when I was little, like maybe 8, he gave me a bag of coins.  They don't make them anymore in Australia.  I had been using a regular penny for five or six years, and then because I used a hat clip.  I was like, I'm going to Pa's coin.  Now I have a half penny.  It's the second week in, so it's doing good.
Q. It's an Australia one?
SARAH JANE SMITH: Yeah.  It's kind of nice.  It has a kangaroo on top.  So when I mark it, there's the kangaroo.
Q. Duane is on the bag.  Do you have any family or friends here this week?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I didn't.  I don't think they are around now, but when we first came to the States we didn't know anybody.  Through a long chain of events, we met a family in Florida.  They took us in, became our mom and dad of the U.S.
Ken used to be a writer for Golf Week, Ken Carpenter.  He passed a couple of years now, but Debbie and one of Ken's best friends and wife drove in last night.
Q. Is Pa your father or grandfather?
SARAH JANE SMITH: Pa, my dad's dad.
Q. Your dad's dad?
SARAH JANE SMITH: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT