CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2017
Sarah Jane Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Still same swing thoughts, tempo, is that what you're thinking about out there?  
SARAH JANE SMITH: Yeah, so I've kind of been thinking like slowing it down and everything, and then actually Sean gave me a good thought this morning.  He said it's not necessarily slow, but just more time.   
He said I should be able to make a phone call by the time you get to the top.  So I get very quick.  It's very much like wham, wham.  Like if you were to put a timer on it it would be the same almost forward and back.   
Give myself a bit more time.   
 Q.  How often to you talk to him?  
SARAH JANE SMITH: I mean, I touch base at least once a week, even if it's just in text.  He likes me to at least send a swing.  If I haven't seen him in a while, I send like one on a Tuesday or Wednesday so I don't let it get too out of control.   
He kind of keeps an eye on it and knows where I'm at.  I'm sort of not too into like heaps and heaps of stuff, so I only talk to him probably every couple weeks on the phone.   
 Q.  Do you think more so when you're up in contention maybe?  
SARAH JANE SMITH: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it's amazing to talk to him like that.  He's part mental coach, part swing coach.  He's just really good to be around.  Yeah, if you can get him on the phone, definitely puts things in perspective.   
 Q.  Do you think about when someone like Sung Hyun is so much more ahead of everyone else, do you think about trying to catch her or do you just think about playing your own game like normal?  
SARAH JANE SMITH: No, I think (interference) as normal.  The thing is she's obviously played amazing today.  At the same time, it means there are lots of birdies out there.   
Hopefully can sneak one of those kind of rounds in over the weekend, but just kind of keep doing the same thing and see how it goes.   
 Q.  Nothing you would change right now?  
SARAH JANE SMITH: I'm going to do a little work on my putting.  I felt like I hit a pretty ordinary putt on the 2nd hole like way too hard, and I think that kind of just threw my confidence of my pace out a little bit.   
I hit some really nice shots today and left a lot of putts short, so nice to just work on that a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT