CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2017
Sarah Jane Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free 66.  What was going so well for you out there?
SARAH JANE SMITH: It's feeling good at the moment.  Holed some nice putts.  It was a bit rough in the beginning, but holed some nice putts for par and sort of kept it going, and then made some good birdies coming in.
Q. First off out there.  With the wind and clouds it was kind of a bit of a cold wind.  How were the conditions out there for you?
SARAH JANE SMITH: It wasn't too bad.  It was kind of nice and refreshing actually to not be hot.  I wore the thick pants so got hot in the end.
Those first few holes are pretty tough if it gets windy, but we were kind of lucky.  It wasn't as bad as it was on the range, so wasn't too bad.
Q. You've had top 15 finishes in your last three events.  What kind of consistency have you had the last couple months?
SARAH JANE SMITH: It's been coming along, and then we -- it was a little bit rough in the middle of the season, and then I've been working on a little bit more tempo in my swing.  I can get really fast out there.
I sort of made a conscious effort a few weeks ago to sort of do it on the golf course, and it's made a huge difference.
Q. Any other parts of your game that you've been working on?
SARAH JANE SMITH: Pretty much that.  That's the main focus at the moment.  I mean, sort of worked on the same thing in my swing now for almost a couple years.
I'm obviously a slow learner.  (Laughter.)  Slowing down has made everything else easier.
No, it's coming along.
Q. Did you switch instructors or anything?
SARAH JANE SMITH: I'm actually working with Sean Foley.  I've been with him for last two years now almost.  I was with him couple years prior to that for four years.  He just got so busy there in the middle and I wasn't able to see him.
I went to some other great teachers as well, but I just seem to play my best with him.
Q. Is it playing any differently out here than years past that you notice?  What are the challenges?
SARAH JANE SMITH: The greens get firm out here.  That can be tough on a couple holes when the wind gets up.  The greens are pure, so if you hit a good putt you know it's going to roll well.
The course is in awesome shape and there's plenty of birdies out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT