BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 30, 2015
Aidan P. O'Brien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we're joined now by some of the connections of juvenile turf winner, Hit It A Bomb. We're very pleased to have with us trainer Aidan O'Brien, as well as Andy Magnier, the grandson of owner Evelyn Stockwell. 
    So Aidan, congratulations. This is your third win in this race out of nine runnings. So if you would, maybe just start off by describing the trip to us and how you saw the race. 
    AIDAN O'BRIEN: Yeah. Obviously, we're delighted with this horse. We always thought a lot of him. Obviously, Mrs.Stockwell came to the race the first day he ran and, at 92, Mrs.Stockwell came and led him in. So that's what everyone always thought of him all the time. And he won a stake and very easy next time. 
    Today, we were very worried. Obviously he couldn't have drawn wider. We were worried about the ground. He's a really fast ground horse. So Ryan gave him a marvelous rate. Couldn't be happier, obviously. 
    THE MODERATOR: Can you talk more about Ryan's ride. It was incredibly patient. How far, from what you could see, did he come back from? 
    AIDAN O'BRIEN: Obviously, we discussed it before and Ryan said like, listen, he was drawn 14, so he was going to leave him relaxed the first half of the race and he was going to walk it out from there. It was going to depend on where he was really.
    Then, it was obviously whether he was going to get there or not. We've seen it so many times. He gave a marvelous ride, let him relax early and came along smooth. I was very worried in that ground the horse wouldn't make up enough ground, he couldn't get there. Obviously, he did. 
    THE MODERATOR: Aidan, we know you have a horse in the next race. I'm going to check very quickly to see if there are questions in the room.

Q. Aidan, after Hit It A Bomb beat 21 horses on grass first time out, you said he would get a lot out of that race. He didn't win by much, but you had confidence that maybe there was another big effort there. Why? And why did you run him back on synthetic? 
    AIDAN O'BRIEN: Obviously, Joseph had been riding him, and he said he was very classy. What he was doing, he was working like an absolutely top horse. Ryan came over to ride him then. He was a little bit slow away, ended up a long ways back. He came up the middle of the track at the corner, which it's a hard thing to do. We didn't win very far, but Ryan was very happy with him. Obviously, we had Ryan to come here, but we knew we had to have a run before we did. So there's a seven furlong race at Dundalk, so we knew we'd get nice ground [ck] where we'd be preparing for him here. Went there and won a stake very easily and obviously just left him ripe for today. 
    THE MODERATOR: We understand you have to go saddle War Envoy. Good luck in the next one. A quick one.

Q. You have a lot of horses. What goes into determining which horses, two‑year‑olds, specifically, to bring over to the United States to run in the Breeders' Cup? 
    AIDAN O'BRIEN: We obviously, everything's always a big group decision. The lads would have a fair idea, actually, before the horse would come to [indiscernible], the horses we are going to suit are obviously the horses that have speed. Obviously, he's by War Front. So we were obviously expecting to come here for fast ground so you'd want a fast, quick horse that might get a mile.
    But everything, all the decisions are very group decisions between everybody. Sometimes we come to right decisions, and sometimes we don't. 
    THE MODERATOR: Good luck in the next race and congratulations. 
    AIDAN O'BRIEN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT