BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 31, 2006
Gary Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What do you put it down to?
GARY EVANS:  I'm definitely going for a Ryder Cup spot I think.  No, it's just I've had a bad time the last couple of years and my attitude has really been poor.  I've been trying so hard with the game.  You know what it's like, this game; it's enormously difficult when things aren't going well to be positive.  You know, I really tried to come here and take it easy and just have some fun with my friends, you know, and I played nicely today.  It was good.
Q.  Was it injury upon injury, was that frustrating?
GARY EVANS:  Yeah, look, you know, I'm a lot luckier than a hell of a lot of people in this world and I've always been able to put some food in my mouth and clothes on my back and all that kind of stuff, but I'm not really that kind of depressed about everything, but in terms of my career what I've known all my life, the last two years has been really horrible and I haven't enjoyed one minute of it.  So it's nice to have one round of golf where I really didn't do anything wrong and I thoroughly enjoyed it.

Q.  Are you fit now physically as well as mentally?
GARY EVANS:  Yeah, I'm actually pretty good at the moment, yeah, apart from the fact that standing here right now I have an unbelievable headache.  But seriously, I feel all right at the moment, yeah.
Q.  Inaudible?
GARY EVANS:  Obviously Steve and I have been friends for a long time and    his caddie, his name is Steve as well.  We've known each other a long time.  He's a good guy.  He's a positive guy.  He's a good guy to have walking down the fairway with you.  Yeah, it's been good.
Q.  So what particularly worked in the game or didn't it matter, you just enjoyed it?
GARY EVANS:  I stood up to the ball a little bit more, stood a little bit taller, and if you wanted, I had a swing thought to stand a little taller and I could swing around myself a little bit better than how I have been hitting the golf ball.  You know, I struck my putts nicely today.  So, you know, it was a good day all in all.  I was very pleased.
Q.  Despite your position in the Ryder Cup, apart from that, is that a target this week?
GARY EVANS:  Absolutely no.  My target is to try to have a little bit of fun.
Q.  Semi retirement?
GARY EVANS:  I'm definitely going to retire at the end of this year.  I've had a great 15 years.  I wouldn't change too much about it.  Maybe apart from the injury situation.  But there's more to life than this, and I've got some really good opportunities that have come my way over the last six to eight months, and I'm going to grab them with both hands and get on with it.
Q.  Can you go into any details of those?
GARY EVANS:  Not particularly at the minute.  It's been well known for a long time that I've had a large part to play with GMI, which is a golf management company, and I may well do some management stuff with them for some of the players which would be great.  It would mean I'd still be out on Tour now and again, servicing the guys and really giving them what they deserve.

Q.  In the meantime enjoy this week and the rest of the season.
GARY EVANS:  Absolutely.  Absolutely.  My girlfriend going to Switzerland next week, and we've booked a nice hotel, we've got a nice view, and just hope that we get some nice weather.  That's the only thing that you play for in Crans.  So it should be good.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT