U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2015
Caroline Ingles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How is it playing in your home state?CAROLINE INGLES: It's awesome.  It's really nice to be here and to be in the comfort of my own state.  It's not very far, and I have my family here.  It's really awesome.Q. Can you tell me a little bit about your round today?CAROLINE INGLES: Yeah.  I started off just a lot of pars.  I stayed patient, wasn't hitting the best shots into greens, but just stayed patient and made birdie, a couple birdies on the back.  Nice birdie on 18, and then I birdied 1 and 6 and 7 and just had a few stupid mis-clubs and a couple bogeys on the back.  But yeah, it was a good, solid round, stayed pretty calm and patient all day.Q. Were you most pleased with your putter?  You said your approach shots were bad.CAROLINE INGLES: I mean, they weren't bad.  There was just a few that I didn't choose the right club I would say.  But no, my putting was pretty good.  I think all around it was just a pretty solid round, each part of my game.Q. You improved from yesterday to today.  What was the biggest reason for that?CAROLINE INGLES: Making birdies.  Just made a lot more putts, saw them drop.Q. You're currently T4.  How important is it to have a top seed in this championship?CAROLINE INGLES: I think it's important, but anything can happen in match play, so regardless if you're a 4 seed or a 64 seed, you still have to go out there and be on top of your game just because anything can happen in match play.Q. How does your mentality change from stroke play to match play?CAROLINE INGLES: I think you can be a little bit more aggressive, take on some pins that you wouldn't normally in stroke play because if you have one bad number, that doesn't mean that you're out of the round, you just lose one hole.  So I think you can be more aggressive, but it's also important to just kind of -- for me, I like to stay in my own game and not really worry about what my opponent is doing too much.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT