NHL DRAFT
June 27, 2014
Haydn Fleury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be a Carolina Hurricane?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   It's a real surreal experience right now.   I really don't have many words to say but just haven't really felt my feet for the past 10 minutes.   It's an unreal experience, and I'm very excited to be in Carolina.  
   
 Q.   Who did you share the experience with tonight?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   My parents and my little brother.   They've been pretty excited the last couple days and even coming here on Thursday, so we've been pretty excited for the past couple days.  
   
 Q.   Great WHL career.   Talk about your development.   
HAYDN FLEURY:   It's been great.   Ever since I was 16 Brent has been there and he's treated me like a pro and he's had high expectations for me.   He's given me a great opportunity in Red Deer and I've tried not to let him down too much.   He's been really good to me, and the coaches and supporting staff around Red Deer, they're all first‑class people and I can't thank them enough.   
   
 Q.   What type of player do you see yourself as?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   I like to use Jay Bouwmeester, just a solid two‑way defenseman that plays in all situations of the game, plays big minutes in St.Louis and generates offense and then very strong defensively, as well.  
   
 Q.   Have you talked to Brent at all or did he give you any words of advice last‑minute?   
HAYDN FLEURY:   He's actually in Hawai'i right now, so I haven't talked to him lately, but before I left, about a week before, I was in Red Deer and I was talking to him about it.   He just said take everything in, it's going to be a really good experience.   That was about it.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any indications which teams were interested in you?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   Yeah, I did.   I met with them throughout the year and met with them at the combine, met with them yesterday, and I kind of had a good idea, but I don't know, I didn't really know if they were going to take me or not.   
   
 Q.   Who else did you meet with?   Did you meet with most teams?   
HAYDN FLEURY:   Yeah, I met with 24 teams at the combine.   I met with quite a few.   Carolina just seemed like they had some interest in me, so that was a big one for me.  
   
 Q.   Was it something in particular that locked it in for them?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   No, not really.   I can't really even tell you right now.   I'm just so excited to be in Carolina.   But no specific thing set them off to me or anything.   
   
 Q.   What kind of player are you?   
HAYDN FLEURY:   I just consider myself a two‑way defenseman that can play in all situations of the game.   I can run a power play, play on the penalty kill and play against other teams' top lines.   I really think I can be a good two‑way defenseman in the NHL.   
   
 Q.   Who are you here with today?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   I actually have 20 people, just a bunch of family.   So I've got my parents and my little brother and about four little cousins and then a bunch of aunts and uncles and grandma and grandpa.   It's a really special day for my family.   
   
 Q.   Would you feel comfortable jumping into (inaudible)?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   I'm not really too sure yet.   I think I need to work hard this summer just to see when I get into camp I'll be able to tell a bit more, but for now it's just going to be going into camp and working my hardest and trying to make the team in the fall.  
   
 Q.   Are you familiar at all with the team's blue line, and maybe who are you looking forward to playing with?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   I know a few, Ryan Murphy, played in the world juniors a couple years ago, so I know him from just watching him.   But yeah, they have a really exciting team, and I'm really excited to get out there.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
HAYDN FLEURY:   I don't know.   I don't have my phone right now.   My mom took it from me because she didn't want me being on it.   Yeah, I'll probably talk to my great grandma.   She's 99 and she's back home watching, so I'll probably talk to her first.  
   
 Q.   What's her name and where does she live?  
HAYDN FLEURY:   Aldonna Jarvis, and she's back home in Carlisle.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
HAYDN FLEURY:   Yeah, I got lots of text messages yeah, so yeah, very excited.  
   
 Q.   What was it like being up on stage with NHL greats?   
HAYDN FLEURY:   It was absolutely surreal.   I think having Ron Francis call my name and Rod Brind'Amour being up there, it was just unbelievable.   Those two guys have had great NHL careers and they're both guys you idolized growing up as a kid, and being able to shake their hands and saying welcome to the organization was an unreal experience.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT