U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2020
McClure Meissner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Obviously 10 strokes higher today.  What was a little different today than yesterday's round?
 McCLURE MEISSNER:   I mean, honestly, just not as many putts went in, but a couple bad breaks, a couple lip-outs.  It was just one of those rounds, honestly.  It happened, and just kind of one of those rounds where you just take it and take it with a grain of salt and move on.  It's not the end of the world.  I actually hit the ball well.  It was just one of those weird rounds.
 Q. Is it better to get it out of the way now than when you're in match play?
 McCLURE MEISSNER:   Yeah, for sure.  Obviously this course we're not playing it in match play, so not as -- I like the course, but just had a couple bad breaks today and made a few bad swings, a few stupid mistakes.  But at the end of the day I played Bandon great yesterday.  Still hitting the ball really well.  Still super positive going into tomorrow.  Feeling really good.
 Q. Obviously you'll be one of the top seeds in the bracket.  Is that the position you wanted to put yourself in when you first came here?
 McCLURE MEISSNER:   Yeah, I mean, the goal is to be the medalist.  Obviously there's some jinx behind the first seed, but at the end of the day you come out here and try to win, and if you don't happen to, you finish high.  Yeah, not too worried about it and feeling good where I am.
 Q. Going into match play now, everything goes back to zero anyhow.  What's different about it from your standpoint, and what will be your game plan in match play?
 McCLURE MEISSNER:   Yeah, I think tomorrow -- I mean, this course, Bandon is obviously really tough.  My goal is just to give myself as many looks as possible, keep myself in each hole and let my ability to be creative shine and then just kind of par my opponent to death, make a couple birdies every now and then, and I think that's going to be tough to beat.
 Q. Growing up where you did, wind is like a friend to you or you're just used to it?
 McCLURE MEISSNER:   Yeah, for sure.  I mean, I'm so used to the wind at this point.  That is pretty normal for me.  Like I said, it's almost a home game.  I feel really comfortable in the wind.  I feel like I'm able to hit just a lot of shots, and that's what I did yesterday.  I did well today, just had a weird round.  Yeah, exactly, I feel pretty good about playing in the wind tomorrow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT