SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 13, 2018
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/A. Barty
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did you feel like you played today compared with your other matches this week?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Well, I felt like it was a pretty good level.  To be honest, I felt like I probably played some of the better tennis that I have this week.  And Angie is on fire.  She's such a competitor and makes you work so hard for each point.
I certainly felt like it was a pretty good level for a final, especially.
Q. It seemed like you started better today?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, you have to be.  It's just an improvement...
Q. I know you wanted to start better in the semifinal.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I think it's just an improvement.  Each match has been very different, and today was another different match that I had to be ready for, and I felt like I was, but, you know, a couple of cheap games cost me, and Angie is going to put you away when you do that.
Q. What did you make of the crowd?  It was a lot bigger than for the semifinal.  Did you enjoy that?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It was phenomenal.  It really was.  There's nothing better than playing in front of a crowd, especially when they're very much pro you (smiling).
But it would have been nice to get a win for them today, for myself, my team.  But it was a hell of a week.  Perfect preparation for next week.  You know, I feel like if, you know, I play like that, I'll probably beat most of the people in the draw.  Today it wasn't just meant to be.
Q. (Indiscernible.)  That's great for tennis.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Amazing.  Truly is.  I think it's special for the Sydney crowd to have an Aussie in both finals.  It's amazing.  Probably doesn't happen too often.  The tournament has done extremely well to bring in the crowds.  There's nothing better than playing in front of a full crowd.
Q. As far as preparation for next week, is she the best person to play?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I think anyone is the best person to play.  You have to play differently against every person, and Angie is obviously back to the top of her game.  I think she'd probably tell you that herself, that she's feeling great on the court and she's feeling the best that she has.
I think it's just a great challenge, but it's just a different challenge for every game.  It's no different to playing Barbora or Dash or my earlier two rounds.  Every single match is a challenge.
Q. Coming into the summer, coming in as Aussie No. 1, so making the final, is it really pleasing to know that you seemed to handle that and took it in stride?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it's exciting.  As I have said coming into the summer, there weren't as many nerves; it was just more excitement.  It's been nice to be able to play some good tennis this week.
My preparation has been the same.  Everything has been the same for each match.  This week it came together, and we've been able to make another final.
Q. Is this the biggest Australian crowd you have played in front of?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, it's probably touch and go with some Australian Open crowds, but any time you get to play in front of a home crowd, it's pretty special.
Q. Yeah, but I guess that also prepares you for next week where there will be big crowds and you can feed off that during a match?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I have played in front of plenty big crowds before, and just playing at home sort of gives you that extra boost.
Q. Where does the friendship kind of stand with you and Angie?  There seems to be a lot of mutual respect.  You both have really nice things to say about each other.  How have you gotten to know her?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, Angie was probably one of the first girls that sort of welcomed me when I first came on to the tour when I was quite young.  She always made time for me.  I think there is that mutual respect, which is amazing to get respect from such a champion like Angie.
I think what she's achieved in her career, the accolades she's had, you can't do anything but respect her (smiling).
She's such a brilliant chick.  If she wasn't playing tennis, it wouldn't matter; our relationship would still be the same.
Q. Where does she rank next week in terms of a major?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I don't know.  You'd have to see what everyone else is saying.  But in my eyes, she has just as big a chance as anyone else.  She's obviously won the title and knows what it takes.
Q. Will have a chance now to have a bit of a rest?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah.  Well, I mean, I'm drawn to play Tuesday.  So the preparation is slightly different as if I was playing on Monday, but we will head to Melbourne tonight and sort of do what we need to do over the next couple of days to get ready.
Q. Has your progress in singles affected your plans in doubles?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I don't think so.  I mean, I'm close to top 10, I think, with Casey, and I don't think it's affected my doubles.  If only, it's helped.  Singles and doubles have both helped each other.
We chose not to play doubles this week.  Case was aware of that.  We will team up next week and hopefully go deep into the tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT