ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2018
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/A. Barty   
6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You played a bunch of top players.  What makes Simona's game different from the rest?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, look, she's the best player in the world.  I didn't feel like I played a bad match necessarily.  I played some really good points, especially early on.  She came up with the goods.   
Yes, there are areas I think she was able to exploit, and she was pretty clear in her game plan.  I felt like it was a pretty good match.  I mean, I didn't feel like I was belted off the court by any means.  But she's No. 1 in the world.   
 Q.  What was your game plan going?  You seemed a bit frustrated.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think she was able to take that away from me.  Obviously she has an absolute world class backhand.  I wanted to get stuck into her forehand side, wasn't able to do so.  She was controlling the court, and kind of in control out there, which is frustrating.   
In the same sense, it's a learning curve.  It's been a really, really positive week.  I've played some great tennis.  Not by any means am I severely disappointed with today.   
 Q.  You played singles, then doubles.  How much of a consolation can it be being in tomorrow's final?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's always nice to have to bounce back and be positive.  I had a quick turnaround between singles and doubles.  Yes, I'm disappointed with my singles.  In the same breath, I had a commitment to my partner, to Demi, to my team, to myself, to go out there and try my very best in the doubles pretty soon after, which is a good thing.   
I can play my singles, do my best in my singles, then worry about the doubles when we have to.   
 Q.  How would you assess the level of play you ladies had in the doubles today?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it wasn't bad.  I think it's a little bit tricky sometimes playing doubles on a center court when it's a little bit bigger surroundings.  But I think particularly we all served well in the beginning.  Then Demi and I were able to get into their service games late into the first set and build pressure into the second, as well.   
 Q.  Talk about the partnership with Demi, how you decided to play together.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, we played in Rome.  That was a bit of a last-minute thing.  I mean, Alize was sick and couldn't play.  I was like, Yeah, mate, we can play together.  I didn't have a partner.   
To be honest, it was much the same this week.  Saturday 9 p.m., she messaged me and said, Do you want to play?  Alize can't play this week.   
Yeah, sure.  I didn't have a partner, wasn't sure whether I was going to play or not.  Turned out for the best.   
 Q.  You're already 21 in the race.  Are you looking for something long-term or she's locked up with Alize?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think her and Alize are 10 or 11 in the race.  That's their commitment.  She will be playing with Alize when she can.  Obviously Alize and I are kind of in the same boat a little bit, playing singles as well.   
Demi is a world class doubles player.  It doesn't matters who she plays with, I think her results have proven this year.  She's won with multiple different partners.  She really is one of the best in the business.   
 Q.  You played with CoCo at the beginning of the year.  Is Singapore a priority for you or are you hoping to have that complement your singles?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I'd love to be in Singapore for singles, but...   
I've always said I will play both singles and doubles.  Doubles this year hasn't been as full of a schedule as I usually would.  But obviously singles is taking my priority at the moment.   
Yeah, you'll see CoCo and I out on the court in Cincinnati and the US Open, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT