ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2018
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/A. Barty   
3-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just talk us through that.  You absolutely killed it first set.  And ever since she made that primal roar backhand, everything seemed to change from her end.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think in the first set she gave me a hell of a lot of cheapies, a lot of errors.   
And, I mean, I think I was looking after my service games pretty well.  And then I think early in the second, in that game, at 1-0, she stepped it up a notch.   
And I think I gave her way too many looks at second serves.  You can't give someone of Serena's caliber that many looks at second serves and put yourself under the pump that much.   
I think there were only really a couple of games, a couple of my service games, but I don't think there was really a hell of a lot in that match.   
 Q.  What are the overall emotions so soon after it?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's disappointing, because I was well and truly in the match.  And I felt off the baseline I was no issues at all.   
I think at the end of the day, I would love to have five or six forehands again, a couple of those errors, and a couple more first serves, and I think it could be a different outcome.   
 Q.  Enjoy the experience out there on center court?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, but 0-3 on that court.   
But, no, I think any time you get to play a champion like Serena, it's amazing.  And, I mean, I played well.  I feel like I wasn't really too much wrong.  Like I said, it was really -- give me half a dozen forehands and ten more first serves and maybe it's a different outcome.   
But I feel like I'm -- you know, this clay court season, we've played well and gone unrewarded a little bit.  Played some good players.   
But at the end of the day, I gave it a crack and it wasn't enough.   
 Q.  How far do you think Serena can go in this tournament?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think, obviously, when Serena found her rhythm again and when she could step inside the court, she's still got that same wider shot.   
Obviously, her serve is one of the best in the game still.  And I didn't think -- I feel like I had too many looks in on her service game.  So I think if she can continues to serve the way that she does, she can have more freedom on return games.   
But I'm not sure who she plays next, but I'm sure she'll go out in the same way and try to do the same thing.   
 Q.  Did you notice a difference tonight before she took time off?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah.  I think, you know, I think she's not quite at the level she was when she was at her best, but that's normal.  That's expected.  But her level when she's not quite on her best is still bloody good.   
And, yeah, I think when push came to shove, the real Serena came out.  And that's one of her best assets is when her back is against the wall, the best comes out.  And that happened early in the second, and early in the third again.   
 Q.  And now grass.  Are you looking forward to that?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Absolutely.  I have a few days off just to rest and sort of wrap my head around the season of what we've had on the clay.   
But, yeah, it's only a week away.  So it's exciting.   
 Q.  What is the schedule?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Nottingham, Birmingham, Eastbourne, and Wimbledon.  So a full one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT