WUHAN OPEN
September 29, 2017
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BARTY/J. Ostapenko
6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. (Off microphone.)
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It been an unbelievable week.  We've played some really good tennis.  I think for us, we've been able to play a really consistent level throughout every match.  We haven't had any real drops.  We've been able to change things tactically a little bit and be able to implement those really well.
Q. Your third final of the year, but the biggest in terms of the tournament.  Do you think that much about that or is every final big?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I think every match is the same for me.  It doesn't matter whether it's the first round at Wimbledon or the final here tomorrow.  I think for me I try and approach the match the exact same way.  I go through my same routines.  Have a discussion with my coach before we go out on court, then we try to do the best we can.
Q. Did she seem 100% to you?  How good was it to get through pretty quickly?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it was nice to come through not having 6 in the third, not having to go to three sets.  I think Jelena was struggling a little bit tonight.  I'm not sure exactly what it was.  But I'm just happy that I was able to sort of keep the foot down on the pedal and to be able to sort of roll that second set out.
Q. How are you feeling?  What does it feel like to be Ash Barty in Wuhan this week?  Are you flying high?  Are you just feeling like the ball is coming off your racquet in a way that it wasn't before?  What's different?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I'm a pretty mellow kind of character.  I don't get too excited about too many things.
No, this has been a really good week.  I feel like I'm moving well on the court.  The ball is obviously coming nicely off the racquet.  I feel like I have full control of the ball, which in some conditions it's really tough to do.  I'm really enjoying playing in these conditions.  It's very similar to Brisbane and to home for me.  It's been a really enjoyable week so far.
Q. Could it get bigger than tomorrow, the Tigers, possibly two finals here for you?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, come on, Tigers (laughter).
No, I've been trying to find a way to be able to watch it.  I watched last weekend's.  Hopefully tennis doesn't get in the way tomorrow.  But I'll see when the schedule comes out as and we'll see how we go.
Q. Have you found a way to find it?  I've been trying to get it on my laptop at the moment.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I FaceTime'd my mom and get her to turn the iPad to the TV.  That was how I watched.  She just had to deep checking occasionally.  She goes, Are you still there?
I was like, Yes, mom, watching.
But no, that was the best I could do.
Q. Just going into the final, biggest final you've had, you played your biggest final earlier this year in Birmingham, but what lessons do you take?  How do you approach tomorrow?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I feel like, I mean, both finals I've played this year I've played really well.  In Birmingham, I probably couldn't have done too much more.  Petra played an amazing match.  I think it was really good quality from both of us.
It's just exciting that I get another opportunity to take home a title.  And if not, it's still a bloody good week.  I think we can just really enjoy the fact this week we've been able to string some really good matches together.
Q. You said before, that if someone told you how your year would go at the start of the year, you'd be surprised.  I wonder what you've learnt over the past year after achieving all of this.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's just been obviously a really consistent year and a very successful year.  But I haven't thought too much about it.  We're obviously still in the midst of playing.  I think when the season's over, we'll be able to sit down as a team, have a drink, just sort of relax and enjoy what we've been able to achieve this year.
Obviously it really has been a phenomenal year.  For me, I don't know if I thought it was all possible.  But it's certainly nice to be reaping the rewards.
Q. You seem very comfortable with Tyz.  What is that relationship like?  What does he bring to your team?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, Tyz is amazing.  I did a few weeks with him when I was working with Jason, as well.  I think we get along really well off the court.  We have very similar personalities.  I think we're just able to work through it together.
When he sort of suggests anything, we go back and forth and actually have a discussion about what we want.  There's no one that's really bossing each other around, as such.  It's a genuine discussion about what we want.  I think we both want to be really successful.  We've been able to do that this year.
Q. Who's more laid back out of you two?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think Tyz might be, maybe just because he doesn't have to play.  But, no, obviously he's a very mellow guy, very calm and levelheaded.
Q. With the singles and the doubles, how are you feeling physically?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I feel okay.  Obviously it's been a big week.  But, no, I feel fine.  I feel like it hasn't affected my tennis whatsoever.  And I think that's the most important thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT