THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2017
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/A. Barty
7-5, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. When you look back on the match, will it be one you think you had a lot of chances to win?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I did.  I did, and I think I just overplayed a little bit, especially towards the end of the first.  I gave away a few cheapies, a few too many cheapies in the whole match.
Yeah, I certainly had my opportunities and had a few points.  I mean, if I could have a dozen points over again, I feel like it may be a different result.
But, no, I made a few too many errors today, especially off my forehand, but sometimes that's the way it goes.
Q. Why do you think that was?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Well, I think obviously Elina is a quality player, a quality mover.  I think I just pressed a little bit too much.  I hadn't hit on the main courts yet.  They are a bit different to the courts we have been playing on.
After four or five games, I adjusted.  Yeah, it was a little bit different, but I think for me I just pressed a little bit too much and just tried to overplay when I probably didn't need to.
Q. A lot of ifs and buts, but do you think if you'd have got through that tiebreaker having saved five or six match points, it might have sort of broken your spirit a little?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I can't answer that.  I can't tell you.  Yeah, the match is done.  Yeah, I mean, she's come away with a win, but I'm happy with the tour that we have had.  And the obviously the way we played today, we'd like to change a few things, but that's how it goes sometimes.
Q. What was it your reaction when you drew Svitolina?  First of all, what was your reaction to the draw, and does it feel like a missed opportunity to get a particularly big scalp?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yes and no.  I think when my coach texted me and said we'd drawn Svitolina, I was practicing with Casey getting ready for our dubs in Eastbourne, so I didn't really think much of it.  We were just practicing and had a job to do in Eastbourne.
I think, for us, we saw it as an opportunity, but I think anyone that I drew I was going to see as an opportunity.  I feel great, I have been playing great.  Today it just didn't quite come off for me.
Q. Why are you feeling and playing so great?  What's changed in the last six months, really?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I think from when I started playing tennis again, sort of in February last year, I felt great instantly.  Last year was tough with a few injuries, but we got off to a great start in January this year.  We have been playing some consistent, really good tennis throughout the whole year.
Yeah, I mean, this grass court swing I have lost to three quality opponents.  I have played pretty well in every match.  I haven't really had a match where too many things have let me down.
Today I would have obviously liked to have a dozen points back again, but that's how it goes sometimes.
Q. Since coming back, has it been more of a mental thing or do you think you have learned something in that period physically?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I'm just more mature.  Obviously it's a very different lifestyle to what people think.  I think I'm learning to enjoy the lifestyle and embrace the lifestyle a little bit more.  When you're traveling week in and week out and you're on an airplane every week in a different country most weeks, I think I have learned to deal with that better.  But I think I also -- I was sort of on tour for a couple of years and I just learnt from that.
Q. Did you talk to Svitolina about cricket?  She's going out with a cricketer now.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I didn't actually know that.
Q. She thought it was curling to start with.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, no, I wasn't aware of that one, no.
Q. Do you think the grass is the best opportunity for you and Casey to win a doubles final?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Without meaning to be arrogant, we have made a final in all four slams.
Q. But I mean breaking through and winning one, do you think grass is your best opportunity?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I think we have given ourselves an opportunity in all slams.  Obviously I'm very comfortable on the grass.  Casey's very comfortable on the grass.  We both grew up on hard court.  Casey's made multiple slam finals at the French.  For us, it's just another tournament.
Q. Coming in after Nick's injury, was that an issue?  Were you aware of what was going on beforehand?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I was watching the match, and knew Nick was uncomfortable from the get-go.  I sort of just pushed forward my preparations about half an hour, 40 minutes or so.  When he'd pulled out, I was ready to go.  Yeah, it was no worries for me.
Q. What's the plan for you next in terms of singles after doubles in Wimbledon?  Will you go home?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I'll definitely go home.  I'm still very much a home body.  Very excited to get home.  We have a job to do here first.  We will start in Toronto.  You know, I'm really excited.  I have never played a US Open Series tournament before.  I have only ever gone over for the Open.  It's an exciting few weeks for us leading up to another slam.
Q. I was talking to Mel Jones earlier.  She was saying the cricket girls were getting together this week to watch your matches.  Was it quite nice to know you have that support?  The hockey girls are playing, as well.  All sorts of stuff going on.  It must be nice to know.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it is.  I love following the cricket girls.  Obviously a few of them are very good mates of mine.  I think as soon as I get back to Australia, we will catch up and go out for a coffee or a beer or something like that.
But, no, it's really nice to have the support from the girls, and they have obviously had a cracking start to their World Cup, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT