AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2017
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BARTY/A. Beck
6-4, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You've been working hard the last 10 months or so.  Maybe relieved, but not surprised?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think relieved as well.  It's nice to finally get that first singles win here.  We've obviously had really good success here at the Australian Open, Casey and I.  It's nice to tick off that singles win.
Q. You were down Love-3 and 4-2 in both sets and you came back to win.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's nice, especially when the crowd's behind you.  You kind of forget the score a little bit, just play point by point.  I think that was certainly something that we went out there -- my coach and I spoke about before we went out there.  You can't finish the match any quicker.  You can only focus on the next point.  It was important for me today.
Q. How did you stay focused in both sets, being down a break in both of them?  Four out of five games in both sets.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I think that's what we train for every day.  We train to come out and play and compete.  Regardless of the score, you're going to go out there and do your best every point.  I think that was important today.
Q. Groundstrokes today were brilliant.  33 winners.  Playing cricket, do you reckon that might have helped the groundstroke power a little bit?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think the willow is a bit different than graphite.  There's not really anything that coincides over with a cover drive and a forehand.  But yeah, no, not really.
Q. In terms of a training load, what's the difference between cricket and tennis?  Which one is harder for train for?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Just think they're both different.  Cricket is obviously semi-professional for women, so it's different to a full schedule with tennis.  But it's certainly working on different things.  Tennis is a lot quicker, sort of that reactive, sort of making quick decisions.  With cricket it depends which skill you're trying to master, I suppose.
Q. What is the difference between the enjoyment you get from winning in an individual sport compared to a team sport?  What does it feel like?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I don't think it's any different.  I think everyone loves winning.  I think everyone in this room would love to go out there and win no matter what they're doing.  It's definitely no different feeling for me.
Q. How long do you let yourself enjoy it then?  Do you enjoy it tonight and then move on towards Wednesday or straightaway?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think you have to enjoy it.  You have to sort of appreciate what you've worked for, what you've achieved.  We're definitely focusing on the next round already.  We'll start preparing now and preparing tomorrow for Wednesday's match.
Q. Were you aware that Simona had been beaten by Shelby before you went out on court?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I had.  I didn't actually know that that was my second round.  They're on the tellies in the locker rooms.  Obviously the first match on center is going to be on the tele.  Yeah, I didn't know that was my second round.
Q. How much notice did you take of the Australian Open last year?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Quite a bit.  I was down here for a few days.  Obviously watched a few matches.  But I'm not one to watch a lot of tennis anyway.
I think a few of the matches I watched were the finals and things like that.  I certainly wasn't glued to the tele.
Q. Is Ash Barty version two different than version one?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I'm the same person, just a slightly different version, a more mature version.  But I think you guys can decide that one, see how different I am, how I look, feel, whatnot.  No, I definitely think I'm the same person.
Q. Your shots looked bigger, with more power.  Do you feel that way?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think it's the difference between being 17 and being 20.  Obviously I've developed a lot in the last few years, have matured a lot.  Now I'm sort of not a little kid anymore.  But, yeah, I think that's probably the biggest difference.
Q. A few of the commentators, shots aside, said you looked generally a lot more relaxed out there.  Did you feel that way?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Like I said I think in my last presser, I know how to prepare a little bit better now.  Doesn't matter whether I'm playing on a court at home or center court here.  Doesn't matter for me.  I just go out and play point by point and try and focus on winning.
Q. Like to be back on Hisense for your next match or you don't care?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Doesn't bother me.  Doesn't bother me.  Play anywhere.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT