BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 2, 2018
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
L. TSURENKO/A. Barty   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously not the result you were looking for, but in time to come soon do you think you'll reflect that your opponent played really well and that was a big part of the result?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, absolutely.  She did play very well.  And I think tonight the polish for me wasn't quite there.   
And I think in especially this tournament you see, but any players in the top 50, when you're not quite perfect and you're not playing your best tennis they're going to punish you, and that's what happened tonight.   
Obviously, disappointing.  Not the way I envisioned my sort of first tournament, first tournament for the year.  But for us there were flashes of what we wanted, and tonight I just couldn't quite string it all together.   
 Q.  She served very well.  She hit a cool spot at some spots.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: So did I.   
 Q.  So you could get yourself back into it.  Were you waiting for that serve to cool off?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, and I think there were times where I was able to create a little bit of pressure.  The cracks did show, but tonight I wasn't able to sustain that enough.   
I mean, it was pretty simple from my end.  I wasn't able to create opportunities to put pressure on her serve, so more and more pressure mounted on my serve.   
But we didn't work hard all of last year and work my butt off during offseason to spit the dummy after one match.  We get back on the practice court tomorrow, focus on doubles with Casey in this tournament and then move on to Sydney.   
 Q.  It looked like at times you struggled getting around the ball.  The ball never looked like it was where you needed it to be to get a clean hit on it.  Did it feel that way?  Did up feel settled out there?  Were your feet moving where you needed them?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it would be nice if the ball was on a string sitting there for you.  But, no, tonight it didn't quite feel right for me.   
And, you know, I think there were matches last year where it was the same feeling, but tonight I couldn't quite get the ball sort of with that perfect control off my racquet even when it's not feeling perfect.  So I think I struggled with that a bit tonight.   
And, you know, it feels like it's been a while since I've played a singles match, and everyone else is in the same boat, and I think my opponent handled that a little bit better tonight.   
 Q.  And the home crowd you can hear them almost willing you to win certain points along the way.  Is that helpful for you?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah.  Obviously, I love playing at home.  I love playing here.  I'm disappointed that I couldn't do a little bit better.   
But for me, every single match I try to approach exactly the same.  So I go out there to -- in doubles in a couple days' time and prepare and approach it as best as I can, and then do the same in Sydney in every single tournament for the rest of the year.   
 Q.  You obviously played Fed Cup, you played a lot of big matches last year, finals.  Were the butterflies any different today in the hallway waiting to get out there or did it feel like, okay, another match?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: A bit of both.  Obviously, a few butterflies first match of the season at home, but I think more than anything it's excitement more than nerves.   
And, you know, I was excited to get out there today and try to put my best foot forward, but it wasn't quite there for me tonight, and that's sport and that's tennis.  But like I said, we'll move on, get back on the practice court and look forward to our next singles match.   
 Q.  Our was your head space coming into the home summer before the first Grand Slam?  Obviously you know that all eyes will be on you.  How are you sort of handling that?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think, obviously, it's a little bit different, but for me I approach and prepare for every singles match exactly the same regardless of whether I'm playing at home here in Brisbane or sort of in the middle of nowhere.   
For me, I approach it the exact same and it's exciting playing at home.  And obviously I'm very disappointed not do a little better tonight, but we've still got a few weeks left in the summer and obviously we're gearing up for Australian Open.   
 Q.  You mentioned the doubles.  How do you find Casey.  Is she a good sounding board for you particularly after your singles performances talking to Casey?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, absolutely.  I think, you know, obviously my discussions with Case before our doubles matches are purely about doubles.  And Case and I are working towards goals in doubles.  And when I play singles, I'm focused on mu singles and when I play doubles I focus on my doubles.   
And Case is great mate.  She's been there and done that in every situation.  So I think she knows how I'm feeling after a singles match, win or lose.  But in the same breath, she knows that I can flip a switch and be ready for doubles regardless of my singles results.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT