BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2017
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/A. Barty
6-3, 2-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Thoughts and feelings off of that one, especially do you feel like you surprised yourself at all out there?  How do you see it?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think we went out there with a clear plan.  Obviously we had to play an aggressive style of tennis.  You know, it put us in a position where we had a one-set shootout with the best player in the world.
I think we were really pleased with tonight.  Obviously disappointed we couldn't get over the line, but very good things came out of it.
Q. You know, this was the first time a lot of people have seen you play since, you know, a few years ago just because of the stage and setting and all.  Talk about how different of a player you are now than when you were, you know, back before you took the break.  Looks like you had a lot more pop on those shots?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah.  I think tonight we had to play that aggressive style and probably put a bit more on my shots and take a few more risks.  I think tonight there was a bit more of that.
I think definitely I am a more developed player now.  Obviously the first time around I was still quite young, and, you know, now I'm more mature and I understand my game a lot better.  I think the previous version was just a younger immature version of me now.
Q. How did it feel in the second set there?  You almost took her 6-1 and the crowd was erupting.  You were reeling off winners here, there, everywhere.  Did you have a chance to think, I'm giving the No. 1 in the world a bit of a lesson at the moment?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, we just try to take it one point at a time.  That's the only way we can approach any match regardless of who is down there at the other end.
To be honest, we weren't thinking we were playing Angie.  We were just playing the opponent.  Whatever she was dealing to us, we were trying to sort of work out and figure out.
So I think, you know, she's obviously the No. 1 player in the world, but it wasn't really in my head while we were playing.  It was just sort of a one-on-one kind of match.  It was just exciting we could get so close.
Q. I guess the emotion, though, just having the journey that you have had and to be back here, obviously having the win the other night, to be playing somebody at a high standard and having such support?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it was great.  It's a perfect way to start the summer for us.  We were able to get a good match, clean match under our belt first up and test ourselves against the world's best player.  It's an exciting start, and I think for us it's not only the start of the summer but start of the year, and start of good things to come, hopefully.
Q. What do you think was the difference, then?  One-set shootout against the top player, you just reel off a really strong set in the second.  What do you think the difference was in the third set?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think when Angie's back's against the wall, she brings out her best tennis and goes into lockdown mode.
I had to keep pushing and keep being aggressive, and with that is going to come a few errors.  I think trying to sustain that level, that red-line level, across the three sets is quite challenging.  Obviously there are a few games early on in the third where we just couldn't keep the consistency together.
It was there, and then it wasn't.  I think overall it was exciting that we could get to that point and give ourselves an opportunity to really go hard at it.
Q. What do you think you did in the second set in terms of adjustments that seemed to be effective against her?  What did you notice, like what shots or alleys, angles that you had?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, there was a slight tactical change.  I think it was just an adjustment, really, to try and bring in my slice a little bit more and still use the court and open up the court with my forehand.
Those two things are my weapons.  You know, I think when we were able to utilize that a lot more, it was better.  Angie was able to take that away from me in the third set, and that's why she's the best player in the world.
Q. You got an Australian Open wildcard.  What are you doing next week?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, we will be down in Hobart.  So we are looking forward to that.  I love playing down in Hobart.  It's a great center, and obviously I'm very excited to get back on court with Casey and have another crack at that.
We had a beauty of a match yesterday.  It's going to be nice to get out there and hopefully get a win.  We are just looking forward to another week of preparation before Melbourne.
Q. Singles wildcard in Hobart?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Qualifying.  We will play qualifying.  And play qualifying and play doubles, as well.  For us, it's the perfect preparation.  We feel great.  We feel like we're hitting the ball great.
If I don't play next week, if I do play next week, for me, doesn't matter.  I'm ready to play and we're just looking forward to the Australian Open.
Q. Probably start Friday?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Friday quallies, yeah.
Q. What was it like, that reaction, walking out on a big court like that, packed crowd?  Just what was the feeling like when you walked to the chair, when you first walked out?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's such a buzz walking out there.  It's amazing.  (Smiling.)
A lot of my friends and family were in the crowd.  It's funny when you're walking out, there is all this noise, and I can still pick out those specific voices, which is really cool.
But, you know, it was exciting that we were in the game today, and, to be honest, didn't get wiped off the floor and we managed a bit of a contest.
Q. I'm wondering how much, if at all, you watched or noticed Destanee's run these last few days and what she's done?  I don't know if you have any sort of relationship with her, but what piece of advice you'd give to her now that she's going to be thrust into this next, next generation?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, to be honest, I didn't get to see a lot of her matches.  A lot of them coincided when I was sort of playing or preparing.  But, I mean, she had a phenomenal week.  What a start to a very young career, and, you know, she's such a good girl.
I don't know her as well as I know a few of the others.  I mean, she's a couple years younger than me.  We have sort of been a little bit separate.  She's had a fantastic -- I think she's playing in Hobart.  Oh, no, Kooyong.
She will get a few more good matches there and then be set for the Open.  Hopefully the draw is kind to her, and she can get to where she's really moving with her shot.
Q. How do you deal with that bright spotlight when it's shown on you in a country like this and where you have a lot of attention?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I might be the wrong person to ask.  (Laughter.)
No, I think, from what I learned, it's just take it slow.  For me, things happened very quickly, and we sort of weren't able to shut that down as much.  I think, for Destanee, she's got the right people around her and the right family around here.
And, you know, I think, for her, just to be able to take it step by step.  And if the success comes, fantastic, and if it doesn't, it doesn't.  So just to take it day by day and enjoy the journey.
Q. Were your dogs okay after the storm?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: They were good.  (Smiling.)
Q. Do you know how many people you'll be able to get into Melbourne?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I have no idea, to be honest.  No idea.  They can come down or they won't.  I don't know.  I'll see.  I suppose I'll see with what work they can get off and whatever.
Yeah, I'm not sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT