ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2014
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. CORNET/A. Barty
      6‑2, 6‑1

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   I know that's not what you hoped for.   Where did you feel it all sort of got away from you?
    ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, I think she played a very solid match.   She didn't let me in at any stage of the match. 
    I think it was maybe a lot closer than the scoreline.   Feel like if I was able to hold my serve a few times in those close games maybe would've been a little bit different.
    I thought all credit to Alize.   She played a great match.   She was up for, it and I wasn't able to get my foot in the door.

Q.   Was the serve what disappointed you the most? 
    ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, I just struggled with the rhythm a little bit today.   Sometimes that happens.
    Yeah, was obviously pretty slow and heavy out there, so it was hard to get any free points at all.   Had to work pretty hard for each free point.   Sometimes those matches don't good your way. 
    Obviously get on the practice court tomorrow and work on things for doubles and start focusing on doubles.

Q.   How did you feel about your movement on the clay and progress from last year to this year? 
    ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, I think I'm still adjusting.   I still haven't played a lot on it.   In the last year I've probably only played the last two weeks for the whole year.
    It's all a progress and development for me.   Obviously played a few matches in the last three or four weeks, and that's been really good for me.   I know that eventually those matches will accumulate and I'll get enough confidence to be able to play these girls.
    Just got to keep working hard and knuckling down.

Q.   You were obviously playing France's No. 1 woman on center court with a parochial crowd.   Did you feel any nerves out there?
    ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, always a few nerves.   I felt pretty good.   I've now played on all the center courts around the world in the Grand Slams, which is pretty cool.   They're all amazing courts.
    I think this one is definitely different to the rest of them.   The crowd got involved a little bit.   But, yeah, good experience.

Q.   Anything particular you're working on with Jason to sort of get to the next level?   You've played main draw in a few slams now.   Anything in particular you need to do to make that next step?   Obviously you've got time on your side. 
    ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, just continuing to do all the same things really.   Keep working hard and chipping away.   For me, it's a slow process.   Taking a little bit of a different route to a lot of the other girls. 
    I've played a lot of quallies this year just to get matches and get that accumulation of time on court.   So that's been really good for me, especially the last three, four weeks.
    For me, I think it's just about slowly taking my time.   Results will come eventually.   Just got to keep working hard and doing the right things.

Q.   When you go into these sort of matches, do you go in expecting to win, hoping to win, or just trying to get experience?
    ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I think you have to go in believing you can win.   That's the only way to approach the match.   I think you have to go in knowing that you can win and trying your best to do so, otherwise there is no point in walking out on the court.
    I just got to keep going out there every match I get, and yeah, eventually I'll get a few wins.

Q.   Is it ever hard when your doubles are so far ahead of your singles in terms of sort of rankings to sort of reconcile?
    ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, it's tough not being able to play a lot of doubles with Casey when I'm focusing on my singles, like we have the last few months.
    So it would've been nice to play with her in Rome or a few of the other tournaments, but it was good.   We had a good win last week in Strasbourg.   We still got all the right things going for us, so now it's just ‑‑ for me, it takes just one or two matches and I'll get on that roll. 
    I'm pretty close, but, yeah, get there eventually.

Q.   How are you feeling about doubles for this fortnight?
    ASHLEIGH BARTY:   We'll see.   Last year was pretty bad for us.   Up a set and a double break.   Won't forget that one.   Just knuckle down the first few rounds and hopefully we can get some confidence. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT