WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2017
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/K. Pliskova   
4-6, 7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you talk through specifically the third set today, just being able to kind of get that early break, lost it, then come through in the tiebreaker.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think it was a really high-quality match throughout.  In the third, I was able to get off to a really good start.  Disappointing to lose a break after a couple of not-so-good points in that game.  But there really wasn't much in it.  To be able to respond straightaway was really pleasing as well.  Obviously very nice to be able to regroup after having a few good matches, play a really good buster.   
 Q.  It's been a fantastic week with all of the wins you've been getting against quality opponents.  Does it mean anything more getting a top-five scalp under your belt, making a big semifinal here?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, obviously it's nice to sort of have those numbers next to your name.  For me, it's just another match, just another opponent.  We try to approach it the exact same way no matter who I'm playing.  We maybe change our tactics slightly, try to execute the best we can.   
 Q.  Start of the season when you were about to kick everything off before Brisbane, we're nine months into the season, your ranking looks very different than what it did back then, is this what you thought was going to happen?  Is this what you imagined or dreaming was going to happen?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: This time last year feels like a very long time ago.  I was still very much struggling with my arm, with my injuries.  It's been nice this year to have a really consistent year.   
The body's held up really well.  I feel great.  Even though it's been a long season and a very successful season, it's been really good throughout.   
I think maybe deep down we knew some of these results were possible, but I don't think quite having the consistency throughout the year that we've had, I really thought was possible, no.   
 Q.  Was there a moment where you thought it was possible, it might happen?  Was it the run in Birmingham, another result at some point, even the first match against Kerber in Brisbane was fantastic, where you thought maybe something special could happen this year?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think my first week in Brissy really set the tone, playing a couple really quality matches.  For me, it sort of just let me breathe a little bit easier knowing I do belong back here.  It had been a long time since I played a big match.  I just feel like every match this season is almost getting better and better.   
I feel more comfortable on the court.  I'm playing with more freedom.  You know, I'm happy off the court as well, which obviously helps.  Just been a really, really nice year.  A long year.  We've worked very hard.  But I think we're reaping the rewards.   
 Q.  Do you feel how much the tennis world is pushing for you, got you under a protective wing, the fans, social media?  Do you feel that when you're checking your Twitter or Facebook?  Do you have an impression that people want you to do well in tennis?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I want to do well, too (smiling).   
No, I think it's very nice to have such supportive fans, a nice fan base behind me.  But it's really enjoyable going out on the court and playing in front of people, trying to do the best that I can do, show them what we've been working so hard for.   
For me, it's just sort of a nice touch on the top to playing good tennis and getting some good results.   
 Q.  You could really see a lot of your doubles experience coming through today with your chipping her serve back, coming to net during the tiebreak.  At what point do you reassess how much doubles you can physically play in a long tournament?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I've got a bloody good partner.  Case was able to help me out a lot tonight.  She knew that.  At different stages during our career, when we've played doubles with each other, Case obviously had a really good singles run in 2013 and '14, was playing a lot of matches.  For me, I sort of had to learn to step up when I needed to.  She's been a great mate for me this year, really stepping up when she has to.  We've had a great year in doubles.   
For me, singles and double goes hand-in-hand.  I prioritize them both the same.  Obviously it's nice to be in tournaments of having the problem of playing too many matches, being on court too much.  It's nice to have that backup as well:  if singles doesn't go well, you've got doubles, and vice versa.   
 Q.  About that chip and charge at 3-All in the tiebreaker, second set, what was going through your mind there?  It changed everything in that set.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it's something I really enjoy doing.  I love getting into the net.  I felt like we'd played a few good points around the baseline.  I couldn't quite find a way to herd her as much as I wanted to.  I thought why not?  Got a second serve, it's a big point.  If she hits a winner past me, it's too good.  You tip your hat.   
It was a bit of a change-up and something that I do occasionally.  But it was nice to come out on top today.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts about playing a Grand Slam champion in the next round, one of them?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it will a good match.  I think the girls will play later tonight and I'll probably still be here getting ready for my match tomorrow.  No, it will be a good match either way.  I've played both of those girls this year and had some cracking matches with them both.  So I think it will be an exciting match.   
 Q.  Obviously you've qualified for Singapore in doubles.  Potentially singles in Zhuhai the week after that.  Does it help having this additional goal towards the end of the season potentially of playing in Zhuhai?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, wasn't really on our radar, to be honest.  I think this year, this last trip, we'd sort of set up to play here, Beijing, Singapore.  That was the end of the season for us.  It is a nice problem to have.  It would be a really nice way to finish the season.  If not, Case and I get to enjoy playing in Singapore.  I think we very much deserve to be there.  I think it will be an exciting week no matter what.   
 Q.  If you win tomorrow, you're going to be ranked ahead of Serena Williams.  How does that make you feel?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: That's not fair.  Serena hasn't played.  You can't say that.  You can't say that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT