BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
December 31, 2013
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Unfortunately, Ash has had to withdraw from both singles and doubles here at the Brisbane International. 
She's here to answer a few questions.   First question for Ash, please.

Q.   Just talk us through it.   It's an adductor tear?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, left adductor has a small tear in it.   Obviously it's really disappointing that I can't go out there and play my match against Maria, and also have the opportunity to play the doubles with Casey again.
It's a tough decision but a smart one that we have to make.   Unfortunately I won't be able to play in Hobart next week either. 
So it's pretty much just I need give myself, my body, 10 to 12 days to recover and hopefully be right for the Australian Open.

Q.   So question mark over the Australian Open still until you get through treatment?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I mean, from the medical advise that I received, should be fine.   So I just got to make sure that I do everything right and recover and do as much rehab as I possibly can from now until the Australian Open. 
Yeah, from all signs I should be fine.

Q.   Too early to say if you'll play doubles in the Australian Open?   Might just stick to singles?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   No.   If I can play in the Australian Open I'll be playing doubles as well.   It won't be an issue.

Q.   Was there ever any sort of thought of trying to play against Maria, or was it always look ahead for the Aussie Open?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, obviously I've worked really hard over the pre‑season.   It's not every week you get opportunities like this to play against the best players in the world.   It's really disappointing. 
Of course it was a little bit in me and also Jase, my coach, as well.   We really wanted to go out and have a go.   Unfortunately, I would just make it worse, and that's just no way to go out and play a tennis match really.
I've just got to, yeah, do everything the best I can and hopefully be ready for the Australian Open.

Q.   When did you first feel it?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yesterday in my match against Daniela, and this morning practicing, again, just made it worse.   Wouldn't be smart to play. 

Q.   What is the exact nature of the injury?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Small adductor tear in my left adductor.

Q.   Have you had this before? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Once previously, but it was a slightly different injury. 

Q.   Obviously missing Hobart, so complete rest now until the Aussie Open?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah it's disappointing that I can't play in Hobart next week.   I mean, I love playing down there.   It's one of my favorite tournaments of the year.   Obviously had a wildcard down there, which was a really good opportunity for me.
Just got to have a couple days rest now and do all the right preparation and rehab that I need to do and get back on the court next week and slowly work my way towards the Australian Open.

Q.   Will you stay here in Brisbane, Ash, or do you go to Melbourne? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I'll stay up omn Brisbane or a couple more days and get treatment with the WTA physios that are here.   Yeah, then head down to Melbourne and again be getting treatment every day to make sure that I'm as ready as I can.

Q.   How disappointing is it to not give yourself that chance against Maria? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, I mean, it really is disappointing.   I really wanted to get out there.   It's something that we've kind of worked towards the whole off‑season. 
I've been playing well these last few matches, and I mean, it's a great start to 2014 for me.   Obviously really disappointing that I can't go out there and play tomorrow. 
Again, something we've worked really hard towards, but just got to now focus our efforts on the Australian Open and move on and keep working hard.

Q.   Winning four matches in a row must give you some confidence. 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, definitely.   It's not the ideal way to finish a tournament really.   I would have loved to play all the way through. 
Unfortunately, sometimes the body doesn't allow that.   I got to make sure I prepare the best way that I can for the Australian Open. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT