BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
December 30, 2013
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. BARTY/D. Hantuchova
  6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   In terms of rankings, try to think, have you had a better singles win than that?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Probably not, no.   I mean, I'm unsure of what Francesca was ranked this time last year, but, I mean, really, it's‑‑ I try not to think too much about the rankings and just try and play the best I can each match. 
I was able to play pretty well tonight, so I'm pretty happy with it.

Q.   There was a lot of emotion when you sealed the win.   Is it still special for you to have a center court singles win?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Oh, of course.   I mean, it's only the second time that I've played on Pat Rafter Arena.   It's an amazing court, and it's so much fun when you have the whole crowd behind you.   I think the crowd really helped me get through this second set in the end.
I think it's the emotion just kind of comes out.   You don't preempt it or anything.   It's just kind of relief more than anything.

Q.   You'll play Maria depending on what happens tonight. 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yep.

Q.   How would you approach a game against someone like her?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I just have to do what I have to do tonight and get my body ready for the next match.   Obviously she hasn't won yet.   We'll see how that goes.
I've a quick look later on tonight.   But, yeah, I mean, I just prepare like any other match and give it my best.

Q.   Pretty good win today also by Casey and Marinko.   Does that spur you on? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, I mean, Marinko's match was a great match.   He fought really hard and had a really good win. 
And then Casey, it's really awesome for her to get a few more singles wins.
It's exciting that all three Aussies on center court today had a win.   Hopefully Gooch and Lleyton can win their doubles match that's going on now. 
Yeah, should be a pretty good day.

Q.   How is it for you when you're here and things get a little bit tight and you look in the crowd and you see not only Jason there, but you're at home, mom and dad are there, sister, brother; does it help spur you on a little bit? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, definitely.   It's great to have Jase there's as a focal point, really.   I can just look to him when I need to.   Half the time it's just for reassurance just to get his nod of approval kind of thing and make sure I'm doing the right thing.
It's awesome playing at home, and I love playing in front of a crowd.

Q.   You got your license now.   Who drives home, you or Jason? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I'll be driving, so everyone better start wearing their helmets.   A bit of extra protection. 
No, it's been good to have little bit of freedom, and it's been nice not to have to worry about mom and dad. 

Q.   Could I ask you are a little bit about Sharapova.   If she wins.   Do you remember watching her win Wimbledon all those years ago?   Were you watching tennis closely then?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   To be honest, no.   I couldn't tell you what year it was.   I know that sounds really bad.   I mean, I don't really watch a lot of tennis, to be honest.
Sometimes when we're on the courts here I watch matches that are on, but when I'm home I don't really watch tennis.   I think she was 17, wasn't she? 
Yeah, obviously it's amazing and she's such an amazing player.   She's definitely built a reputation of a fighter.   I just hope to go out there, and if she does win, hopefully we can have a good match.

Q.   Does it still give you a little bit of a thrill to come up against Daniela, Francesca, Sharapova?   Does it still give a bit of a buzz? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Oh, yeah.   I mean, every match really it still kind of gets that adrenaline going.   I think more so when you're playing on a bigger court. 
Tonight it was so fun going out there.   When you walk out you hear the roar of the crowd, and that kind of gets you going a little bit.
In the end you forget who is down at the other end and you just try and play the ball as best you can and do what you need to do. 
Yeah, it's really exciting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT