BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
December 29, 2013
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. BARTY/K. Bertens
  2‑6, 6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Never say die attitude out there. 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, I mean it's great to come back from a few matchpoints down.   The last couple times I've been on the wring end of it. 
No, nice get a win, and to string three together was great.

Q.   Have you played a WTA match like that where you actually come back from match points down?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   A couple I've lost having had matchpoints.   Not that I can remember right at this moment.   Yeah, just really pleased with the way I've been playing the last three matches. 
Hopefully can continue my next match. 

Q.   (Question regarding wildcard. ) 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Playing matches is great, and that's what we play for and practice every day and do all the hard yards for.   It's really rewarding to win a few matches in a row.   It's a great start to my 2014.   I'm really looking forward to the year from here.

Q.   Is a win like that more special given that it's in Queensland, at home? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   It's awesome playing at home.   It's great to have the crowd behind you.   It makes it a lot easier to come back from a match like that when you've got the crowd behind you.
I love playing here at home.   I'm sure this one will be on my schedule for a long time.

Q.   How hot was it on court?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   It's a little bit easier when you've got cover over the courts.   I love playing at home here.   I played here since I was five years old, so I'm pretty used the weather here.   I love it. 
Just nothing better than having a good sweat when it's nice and hot outside.

Q.   What did your coach say to you when you came out and you were down 3‑nil in the third set. 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, he just said to me, you know, Just keep continuing to do the things you're doing.   I'm really close to where I wanted to be and it was only one break.   I knew if I could just hang in there eventually I would get my opportunity.
Just needed to bide my time.   When I got my opportunity, I was able to take it, which was good. 

Q.   What's the goal you set for yourself this year in terms of ranking? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I haven't really set myself any goals ranking‑wise.   I just want to really play a lot of matches this year and try and accumulate a lot of time on court.
Yeah, hopefully get up a few wins and the ranking will take care of itself eventually.   Just got to keep working hard off the court, and eventually the results will come.

Q.   Casey in doubles and singles, how are going to handle that?   More singles than doubles?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, definitely for Casey and I the priority is still singles.   Last year or this year we still put our priority on single.   It was just amazing that we had great doubles success.
I think again this year we'll both be playing singles and try and work out a schedule where we can play doubles in a few tournaments.   It's good this year that I can play a full schedule as well.   That helps be able to play when we need to. 
I can also play a few more singles matches if need be.

Q.   Do you have any goals or aspirations?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I've just got to keep playing the way I've been playing really.   I don't know who I'm playing yet.   I've just got try and knuckle down for the next match and continue to play well.
Whatever happens, happens. 

Q.   Is there any area of your game that you're trying to work on here in Australia this summer? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Getting a few wins would be nice.   (Smiling.) 
No, just continuing to do all the things we have been doing and develop my game and try and bring everything together.   What we did in the off‑season is already paying off.   Really looking forward to the season ahead. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT