AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2013
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. CIBULKOVA/A. Barty
  3‑6, 6‑0, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What were your thoughts on the match today?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, I mean, I thought I started really well.   I got off to a great start in the first set. 
In the second and third set I just made too many errors.   My first‑serve percentage was pretty horrendous the whole day.   But, you know, I proved that I could still win a set without playing my best on my serve. 
But, yeah, I mean, I think her experience just came through and she played better.

Q.   Does that give you confidence moving forward?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, the whole summer I've played great so far.   At the Hopman Cup I had a great week, then in Hobart last week as well. 
For me, this is just a big learning curve.   I've learned a lot from the match.   I'll go and talk to Jason, my team about it.   I'm sure we'll learn a lot.

Q.   Is it part of being in that situation of being a set up, nerves of being in the Australian Open, come into play today? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, yeah, no.   I mean, after I did get that first set, I kind of dropped off a little bit.   I think that was nerves.   She was able to pounce on me pretty quickly.   That's why she's ranked 15 in the world. 
Yeah, once she got the momentum, I wasn't able to stop her.

Q.   What sort of lesson can you take from a match like that?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I think you just have to look back at the match, have a look back at it, we'll see what happened, yeah.

Q.   Big crowd play into your nerves today?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   No, it's great playing in front of a home crowd, especially playing in the Australian Open in your backyard.   There's nothing better than having the whole crowd cheering for you. 
Unfortunately, I couldn't stop her when she was on a roll today.   They were great out there.

Q.   Are you going to go away and have a look at that game? 
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, 2014 is a long away way.   I'm still in the doubles event.   I'll play with Casey this week.   Hopefully we can do well. 
It's all about building and building experiences and learning from them all.   I'm still so young, so I'm able to take onboard all these experiences and really learn.

Q.   Are you still happy you still have a chance to get out in front of the home crowd playing doubles?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   There's nothing better than going out playing a doubles match, have a bit of fun out there, work on the things you want to work on.   It's great fun playing with one of my mates like Casey.

Q.   What are your goals for 2013 now?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   For 2013, I'd like to maintain really.   I'm inside the top 200 now.   If I can maintain a similar ranking or maybe a little higher or lower, you know what I mean.   But, yeah, I deem that as a success. 
So, you know, I'm just looking forward to gaining some good experiences from this year and, yeah, hopefully I can do well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT