AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2012
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. TATISHVILI/A. Barty
  6‑2, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You fought hard in the second set.   Does it give you a lot of hope how close you are to getting what you want?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Oh, definitely.   It was my first Grand Slam so, you know, I felt like I was able to compete with her pretty well in that second set, as well in the first.   I just made a few too many errors. 
She's not 80 in the world for nothing.   She's played a few more matches than me obviously.   I'd like to get out there in the doubles and mixed as well and get a few more matches and see if I can gain some more experience.

Q.   Did you have any nerves at the very start?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Oh, there's definitely nerves there.   The crowd out there was amazing.   They helped me settle in pretty quickly.   I felt like I played pretty well at the start. 
Yeah, I made a few too many errors at the end of the first set and throughout the second.   I felt like I was able to compete with her, and, yeah, got pretty close to her.

Q.   What do you think is the biggest thing you'll take out of this match going forward?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I felt like I could compete with her.   She's 80 in the world.   I felt like I was almost there.   She was close to losing it a little bit mentally.   Credit to her.   She played well.   I thought I played well.   I just made a few too many errors. 
Hopefully I can go out in the doubles and play well with Laura and see if we can get a win or two.

Q.   What is your schedule now after the Australian Open?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I'll just play a few 25 tournaments, 25k tournaments, around Australia, try and boost my WTA ranking up throughout the year, hopefully get my ranking up enough that I can play quallies in a few of the slams and see how it goes.

Q.   You're playing juniors here, too?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I'm still ‑‑ we're not sure about that. 

Q.   When will you know?   What is stopping it, the doubles schedule?
ASHLEIGH BARTY:   We'll see how I go in the mixed and the doubles, but we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT