QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 25, 2020
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/L. Siegemund   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Kind of talk through the performance, looked like a pretty confident solid one from your side.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it took some time to adjust just to the conditions and having not played my opponent before, I think there's always that natural kind of couple games where you're feeling each other out. But yeah, look, happy overall to be able to switch on when I really needed to. Disappointing to have a few lapses in concentration but also a credit to my opponent, she came up with some really good stuff in runs to be able to break me a few times.   
 Q.  Speaking of the conditions, do you find that, since it's your first tournament time here in Doha, do you find the conditions play into your game or are there certain things about the whole situation that you have to adjust to?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it's different to what I've played in previously and I think I'm still learning, still trying to figure it out properly and, I think, trust myself a hundred percent. And it's I think it's a court surface and a kind of an air and a condition kind of place that suits a big ball striker and someone who is not afraid to get on top of the rally, to get in control early in points. So I think I'll have to adjust a little bit to that, adjust accordingly, but yeah, so far, so good.   
 Q.  What is it after a long break, what kind of worries is it, do you think there could be a lapse in concentration, could be rustiness or it could be that your opponent is really geared up to challenge you, what kind of worries -- because it was a long break and then you're coming back -- so what would you look at when you come in after a long break?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, that wasn't a long break, that was pretty normal for me, I think. I'm very happy to put rackets down for a week, if not more, after big stretches of tournaments and knowing that I need to keep myself mentally fresh more than finding the middle of the racket straight away.   
So I think, yeah, obviously we had a few weeks since our last match, but nice to get back into competition mode and obviously I feel like I've been doing this a long time now so even if I don't kind of start well I give myself time to get into the match and then kind of the competition and the competitive juices come take over.   
 Q.  But is there a worry that in that case you allow yourself that much more time that your opponent could get the better of you even in a match or even during the tournament?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Not something that I stress about, no. I think if you worry about it and you stress about it then it becomes a disadvantage. But if you don't stress about it and you don't I think take it into account too much it just is what it is.   
And for me it was a little bit of I needed to take that little bit of extra time, it was only a few extra days, but that changed the schedule just a fraction, but, yeah, not something that I'm overly stressed about.   
 Q.  Are you following the T20 World Cup?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Of course I am.   
 Q.  Because Australia had a very good game, so I was just wondering if you watched it.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, no, I did. The time zone's actually quite nice here, having the afternoon schedule of tennis, the matches in Australia are in mid-morning and in the middle of the day, so, yeah, it was a nice morning to spend watching the girls kind of fight and scrap through that one, but, yeah I'm glued to it.   
 Q.  And next either Rybakina or Van Uytvanck -- don't know what their match is at the moment --  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Couldn't tell you.   
 Q.  But can you talk through both opponents and also obviously you know and played Rybakina before, everyone's still kind of getting to know her, but just what she's been able to do on the tour so far is pretty remarkable.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Exceptional, nothing short of exceptional. It's amazing to see what she's done over the last I think six tournaments and there's more than a few finals in there and a title as well.   
And I think the way that she's kind of burst onto the scene this year -- she's obviously been doing the right things for an extended period -- but just this year it's clicked for her and the stars have aligned and she's played some really good stuff. And if I get another opportunity to play against her it will be fantastic to challenge myself against someone who is extremely confident and feeling the ball well.   
And then, if it's Alison, we have played a couple of times as well and it's a different matchup, I think it's a matchup I enjoy, I feel like we kind of bring the court craft back into the match a little bit. But, yeah, both present different challenges and I'll look forward to either one.   
 Q.  Could you share a few words about Carla, it's her last title -- well she won here obviously in Doha -- biggest title and it's her last Doha and it's her last season, so what is she like and mean to the locker room and your experiences with her as well on the court and off?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think don't count her out for a bigger title this year. Carla's an exceptional person, a great player and someone who is very well respected in the locker room. I think it's going to be hard to find someone who has anything bad to say about her at all.   
She's had a great career and I feel like she's very much a smoky through this clay season coming up, particularly in Madrid, I'm sure she's ready for a deep run there and it's a congratulations to her for her longevity in her career and I think she's gotten every single piece out of herself, she's the best that she can be and that's all you can ask of anyone in tennis and it's just been really amazing to see her as a person do so well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT