AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2020
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/P. Hercog   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you feel that was a step up from your first-round match?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think yes and no. It was a very different match. I think particularly playing in the day made it a lot different. The wind was a massive factor today, changed end to end dramatically.   
It was important for me to get a good start, and I was able to do that.   
 Q.  Did you feel more comfortable today?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think you feel more comfortable every day. Every time you're able to win a match, you have another opportunity to try and be that little bit better, to try to be that little bit more sharp and clean.   
I felt like I started a lot better today, and then the second set, as well, was able to get out of some sticky service games towards the end of the set there.   
 Q.  Six breakpoint opportunities there. Was it the fact you were able to produce big serves, a couple of big forehands there, the most pleasing part of that? The way you stepped up, must have been happy with how you handled those situations.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it was good to play the big points well. But I think all three of those games were 15-40, which is not really an opportunity I want to give to my opponent, three back-to-back service games, I think it was.   
Yeah, obviously nice to be able to get out of those. In those points my structure of points was a lot better. I probably should have done those earlier in the service games. But that was also something I did very well in the first set was get ahead in my own service games and then put the pressure straight back on my opponent.   
 Q.  Your next opponent, what are your thoughts on who you play next?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think they're still playing. Yeah, I mean, I had no idea. We actually just had a quick peek once we got off the court, but they're still playing. I think for now I'm not really going to focus on it or stress about it.   
I'm looking forward to playing doubles first I think in between. I think we will play tomorrow. That will be exciting.   
And, yeah, once we actually know who the opponent is, kind of start working out what we want to try and do and how we want to execute.   
 Q.  We saw Zverev last night with another big donation for the bushfire crisis. As an Australian, it must be humbling to see how the tennis community has really gotten around and supported everyone involved.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's been incredible, it really has. I think it goes beyond the tennis community. The whole nation is coming together. And I think it's what is amazing about Australians is that when our backs are against the wall, support each other and we come together.   
It's been very generous from people all over the globe donating to try and help, because every single little bit counts. Whether it's big or small, it all makes a massive difference.   
It's been amazing to be a very small part of all the donations. And the fact that the tennis community is coming together, because I think, you know, the work that everyone is doing from the firefighters, volunteers, everyone, it's been remarkable. That's the best way to put it. It's been amazing. It's really nice for the community but the whole nation to come together, as well.   
 Q.  As you're going into the tournament, what areas of your game are you most pleased with in terms of the improvements? And what areas are you looking at to improve more?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think each match obviously we kind of debrief and look at it a bit differently. I think today was a big emphasis on my return games and try and generate a few opportunities. Because Polona has got the ability to serve you off court, hit you off the court with those first two strikes. It was important to try and make a lot of returns.   
And then on the other side of that, as well, was look after my own service games. I think playing those big points well was really important today.   
 Q.  We see some players request different courts, different times to see what they can get. Did you prefer playing in the afternoon or did you prefer the night session on Monday night if you had your choice next up?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Both beautiful. No kind of special requests. No complaints. I'm fortunate enough to be in a position where I get to play on beautiful Rod Laver Arena.   
Regardless of what court it is, for me it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what time of day. I will be there trying to give it my best.   
 Q.  You said earlier you were sick of seeing yourself on billboards. Do you think you'll ever get used to that?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Absolutely not, no (smiling). Everyone has to put up with me. It's pretty average, I think.   
No, it's been incredible. Like I've kept saying, the love and the support I've received from people all over Australia, in particular kids, it brings a smile to my face every single day when kids come up and just want to have a chat. It's amazing.   
 Q.  Regardless of who you face in the next round, I don't think either opponent's made it past the second round of a slam, are you feeling more comfortable now? Third or fourth year in a row you're up to the third round of the Australian Open. Had great success last year at other slams. Are you comfortable now and feeling, yeah, comfortable on that big stage the further you get into a slam?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's just more opportunities. It's more experience, more learnings, more everything from every time that I'm kind of thrown into a new situation.   
I mean, it's going to be no different for whoever my next opponent is. It may be a first for them, but they'll be ready, they'll learn from it, they'll enjoy it, experience it, everything that you need to do to kind of be out there.   
I think for me it's about doing what I do best regardless of whether it's a first round, third round, or a final. It doesn't really matter for me what round it is. I'm still going out there trying to do the same thing, essentially.   
 Q.  The money being donated, the incredible generosity of people with the bushfire crisis, does that bring with it for you a bit of greater expectation because it will be very symbolic and a special moment if an Australian won this tournament following on from what we witnessed?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, look, tennis is a game. Honestly, there are so many bigger things going on in Australia right now. I don't think anyone could care less if an Aussie wins it or not. First and foremost, it's about the safety and the well-being of Aussies all across the nation, of wildlife, everything.   
It's unfortunate it's been going on for a couple of months. So I'd prioritize the safety and kind of rebuilding kind of parts of our nation that have been destroyed over a tennis match any day of the week.   
 Q.  Channel 9 was just saying you were texting Casey last night threatening to give some one-word answers in your interview today. Is that right?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I text Casey most nights threatening something. It just depends on what we have been chatting about. She said last night she was going to sit courtside. I said hopefully if the result goes the right way, she'd be out there.   
But she hadn't confirmed or denied it. I think she was trying to keep me on the edge of my seat whether she'd be out there.   
It was tough to act semiprofessional with her on the court. That conversation could have gone pretty south pretty quickly, I think. No, it was good fun to see her out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT