ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL
January 18, 2020
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/D. Yastremska   
6-2, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Well, how does it feel to finally win a title on home soil? What did it feel like on that match point?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, third time lucky, I suppose, isn't it? The best part about this week is I fought and scrapped my way through and got better and better in each situation, in each match.   
I just put myself in the position to play for another title, which is really exciting. It's been incredible to play at home. Yeah, a really, really special week.   
 Q.  I'm sure you expected her to fight back in the second set, as she did. I'm just wondering, how did you feel you handled that? And what did you do differently perhaps to close it out?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think at the start of the match she was a little bit erratic and gave me a few cheap errors in twos and threes in a row. I knew that wasn't going to stay that way throughout the whole match. She's too good of a player to be able to not change and make a change to some degree.   
And I think, yeah, the second set was a bit of a tussle, and, you know, I was kind of waiting for an opportunity. I had a couple of 15-30s where I didn't make the most of them, but in the end was happy with that 5-All game where I made a few more returns and just put the pressure on her for those first couple points.   
 Q.  The first set, obviously winning it reasonably convincingly, did you feel as though that was among some of the best tennis that you have played this week? Because sitting outside looking in, it sort of looked that way.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yes and no. I think every match has just been very different this week. I think I have played different types of players and kind of worked my way through and problem-solved each match, is all I can really ask.   
I think I served particularly well today when I needed to, except for one poor service game, but all in all, very happy with the week.   
 Q.  I guess there is always a bit of an unknown, the start of a season, because you never came to the Aussie summer as a World No. 1. I know you played Fed Cup at home. But it was probably a bit of an unknown how you would react to it. How reassuring have these first two weeks been, especially this one, for you entering Melbourne?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think reassuring, but also, if I lost first round, first round, I wasn't really going to hit the panic button. I mean, it's the start of a new season.   
Yes, I take the experiences and learnings from last year, but you have to start fresh. Everyone is starting with a clean slate this year. It's about trying to bring out the best in yourself and problem-solve in those situations when you need to. I felt like I did that very well this week.   
Sometimes it wasn't my best tennis, but I was able to find a way. I think that's what's most pleasing.   
 Q.  How do you feel you're shaping up ahead of Melbourne next week?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Not bad, I suppose (smiling). I mean, look, it's been a great preparation this week. It's been a great two weeks of preparation.   
You know, I know that we play Monday night, so look forward to playing on Rod Laver Arena on Monday night. It's going to be exciting and a fresh tournament, as well.   
I have to start with my clean slate for the Australian Open. Looking forward to that first round.   
 Q.  The hype and all the attention that you're going to have in the next couple of weeks, do you have to protect yourself from that? How do you keep it, I guess, as normal as possible for the tournament?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I'm pretty good at that. I don't listen to much of it. I don't read about it. I don't really invest myself or invest my time in what's going on on the outside.   
It's easy for me to lock down and just do what I need to do with my team. I think what makes it normal is I stick to my routines. I'm still the exact same person that I was. Nothing's really changed for me as a person.   
I think it shouldn't really change me as a tennis player. I think it's about learning from all the experiences I've had, the good, the bad, the ugly. I think it's about learning from that and then trying to use that as best you can in each situation and try and problem-solve.   
 Q.  Four years ago I remember snapping you playing cricket out on Adelaide No. 2 and across what they call Karen Rolton now. The change in that four years has been staggering. Can you give us an insight as to how that's come about and what mental strength you need to show to get there?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Well, it's a different sport, for one (smiling). I mean, look, it's been an incredible three-and-a-half years for myself coming back into the sport.   
You know, I have surrounded myself with quality people, with authentic people, and those are the best at what they do. I think I'm very lucky to have my team of people around me that have helped me try and become the best person that I can be.   
It just so happens that, you know, I have learned to strike a tennis ball reasonably well, as well. But, yeah, I mean, look, it's nothing -- it has been a personal development, of course. Yeah, I mean, that's about it.   
 Q.  Entering Melbourne as World No. 1, there is a lot of hype that goes along with that. Can you enjoy it? Is that something you worry about later? In terms of when you look back on your career, I'm sure that will be a fond memory. But can you enjoy the experience of going to Melbourne knowing you're the World No. 1 and knowing there is going to be so much support for you there?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I enjoy the challenge and I enjoy what next week will bring, regardless of what number is next to my name.   
I think it's a brilliant event to be a part of. You only get to play so many Australian Opens, so I think for me it's about enjoying the competition and the challenge and focusing on what I can do.   
I think there is not really much else I have to worry about in that regard. If it's a first round, if it's a final, if it's anything in between, it's still an amazing experience. I think I just have to go out there and enjoy it.   
 Q.  Now that you've got the trophy, what are your thoughts on knowing a bit of the background on the creation of the trophy? What are your thoughts on that?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's remarkable. I think it's very special. I think for my family and the heritage that we have and the heritage that we kind of share with this trophy, it's amazing.   
But the thought and the effort and love that's gone into this trophy is incredible. I know it will look bloody good at mum and dad's house.   
 Q.  That level-headed mentality that you have and the approach you're taking to how everything happened over the past year, I'm wondering how much of it is acquired and how much of it is something that you've always had in you, that kind of level-headed mentality? Have you had to work hard on that?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I haven't had to work hard on being me. I think, you know, I'm extremely fortunate to have an incredible family, mum and dad, my sisters who keep me very level-headed. I think that's the most amazing thing. It really doesn't matter whether I win or lose a tennis match, whether I was playing tennis or I wasn't.   
You know, I'm still the same Ash today. I think that's the love and that's the comfort that you need, and it's just, like I said, so happened that we have had some incredible results and have been riding on this kind of incredible journey with my professional team, who are also my family.   
I think I'm just a very lucky girl to be surrounded by such people.   
 Q.  I just saw a video on Twitter. You got a marriage proposal from one of the fans. How difficult or interesting is it having to deal with this kind of increased fan engagement, deal with people who really love you now?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Well, I mean, it was my first marriage proposal, so -- I mean, I said, Man, I'm not really available at the moment. (Laughter.)   
Yeah, look, no, it's incredible the support that I get from the Aussie fans. I love it that there is a little bit of Aussie humor in it, as well. I love that banter. I just love it.   
Yeah. Sorry, Mate. Not this time. (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT