CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/K. Bertens   
6-3, 3-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Could you describe how your style of play differs from Kiki's.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I think Kiki and I are very different players. I think every single girl on the WTA Tour has a different style and a unique style.   
I think Kiki has the ability to play a lot of different types of tennis as well. She can be very aggressive, she can drop back and make you play a lot of balls. That's one of the biggest challenges about playing her, is you know she's got options B, C and D, all the way through to be able to try to win the match.   
 Q.  After the really strong start in the first set, seemed like Kiki was making some adjustments. What did you see in terms of how that match got as tight as it did?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think particularly probably from middle of the first set right through until I probably broke early in the third, Kiki went into lockdown mode. She didn't give me very many cheapies as well. She does that extremely well.   
I remember from the Miami match, it was very similar. There were periods of that match where she went into complete lockdown. I had to fight and try to find a way through.   
I thought the quality was exceptional from both of us at times. Win or lose, you come off feeling pretty good about it. Obviously it sucks there's only one winner. But pretty happy with the way I was able to fight and dig in late in that third, as well.   
 Q.  You had quite a few unforced errors up until the eighth game of the third set. You seemed to stop making them. When that happens, you clean up your game, is that something that consciously happens? Is it a technical thing or do you rely on the fact that instinctively you'll discover your game again?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think a lot of it comes down to trusting myself, knowing that once I make a decision with the balls, to trust it and go after it. And don't play in a way where I'm fearing what could happen. It's more about going after it, trying to be aggressive.   
I think early in the third, my first service game, I missed three forehands, all the right misses, if there is such a thing. It was doing the right thing. It was just execution.   
My back was against the wall late in the third, I came up with some really good stuff. So did Kiki. One or two points in that match... Yeah, it's just a match that you look at and you take the positives no matter what the result.   
 Q.  Petra was in here yesterday saying one of the biggest things she's seen in terms of your development is how clutch you've been. She sees you're playing those points differently. Today very similar thing. How different are you mentally in those moments now compared to 12 or 24 months ago?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it been a massive growth. I think probably overall that's been the biggest part of my growth over the last 18 months. That's gone hand-in-hand with adding some new people to my team, trying to work with them behind the scenes, not just for my tennis, it's for my life, my health and well-being, as well, which has been the best thing.   
I never have been happier off the court, never been happier on the court. It's been a brilliant time in my life. Yeah, I think the best part about it is that I enjoy those moments. I enjoy when it's tight, when your back's against the wall. That really brings out the fun for me.   
It's just been really nice to be able to play, like, two matches the last two days, incredible level. Regardless if I was on a plane home today, I probably wouldn't have stressed any more or less about it. It's just been a really, really good level the last two days.   
 Q.  When Kiki steps up to serve for the match at 5-4, how much of the head-to-head or previous history comes into play for both of you?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think Kiki is too good a player to worry about that, stress about that. From my point of view, it doesn't matter who is down the other end. If someone is serving for the match, I think it's important in those first couple of points in that game to try to put the pressure on.   
I was frustrated with myself that I missed the backhand return at Love-15. I felt like I let her back in there. But to play some really good points after that, put her under the pump, doesn't matter who is down that end, what your head-to-head is, it's about playing in that moment, in that point.   
Yeah, Kiki is certainly too good of a player to let that bother her, for her to stress about that. I mean, we both played a great tiebreak. 5-All point, the 6-5 point, we played some exceptional tennis. It could have gone either way. That's what you have to look into the match, it was just quality all throughout.   
 Q.  Obviously either Naomi or Caroline. I don't think you and Naomi have played each other as Grand Slam champions.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I haven't played Naomi I think since maybe Nots last year. We've only played twice, once on hard court at the Australian Open. Obviously on grass, Nottingham is very different.   
I think both of us are different players now. It's probably hard to take much out of those two matches. It's a bit of a clean slate, a fresh start for both of us.   
If it's Cara, she's proven time and time again she's a champion. She's won this tournament a couple of times. She's never down and out for very long. I think if she has a disappointing week, guaranteed she's going to bounce back.   
She's an exceptional person, a good friend of mine. If I had the opportunity to play her again, I'd like to try to turn the tides on our last few results. I've been close before, but that's the challenge of playing one of the best we've seen in our women's game.   
 Q.  Did you get a chance to watch the match last night?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I didn't. It wasn't on our TV in the hotel. I was FaceTime-ing home, then was flicking through some social media while my VPN was working.   
No, I didn't get to see that one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT