MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 27, 2021
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. BARTY/J. Ostapenko
 6-3, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. What are you most proud of, getting through to the fourth round today?
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I think today felt like I was a lot sharper and switched on and ready to go from the very first point.  I give myself another opportunity to try and do that again in another match in a couple days' time.
 I think that's probably the most pleasing thing is that each day we continue to learn, each day we continue to grow and continue to try and develop our game and learn from our mistakes, learn from all experiences that we have.
 Q. When you were first on Grandstand today, do you have a preference as a professional?  Do you have to be early on and off or to play later in the afternoon or even at night?
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Oh, the scheduling today was because we had to play doubles in the afternoon, and unfortunately Jen was unable to get on the court this afternoon, so that was purely from a schedule basis.  Obviously if you're playing doubles you typically play earlier in the day.
 But as an Aussie, I feel like a lot of us are early risers, particularly in Brisbane.  The sun is up at 4:30 in the morning during summer, so we're early birds and I do enjoy playing first on.
 But then there are also really, really special moments playing night sessions and later in the day, as well.
 Q. It's obviously your first trip out of Australia in over a year.  Does it kind of feel surreal or just like old hat?  Talk a little bit about that experience.
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Without a doubt it's different.  I think the whole world has had this enormous adjustment to the way that we live, obviously with the circumstances that we are in.  We're playing in a bubble, and I think the brilliant thing is that we are in a safe environment where we can play and do what we love and have the opportunity to play professional tennis.
 But traveling was certainly bizarre, without a doubt.  The airports, I have never seen them quite like that before.  All in all, we feel like we're very comfortable with the fact that the tour has created a safe environment for us to play.  I think ultimately that's why we decided to come out and play again and we are enjoying every minute.
 Q. Talk a minute about the match today.  Outside of the 2-Love she had in the second set, you seemed to use the court well and expand it to your strengths, also kind of kept her a little unnerved.
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, that was the goal today was to try to bring the tennis back to my kind of tempo and my kind of rhythm as often as possible and as quickly as possible in points.
 She obviously has the ability to take that away from you quite quickly, particularly off serve and first shot and off her returns.  So it was about being patient at times and making sure we tried our best to neutralize and then bring the game back in our favor.
 Q. Before leaving Australia and during the season over here, you and Tyz were talking about setting up bases overseas because you're going to be away for so long.  What did you all finally conclude with as far as bases are concerned and how often are you going to go to wherever they might be?
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Still unsure just yet.  It's at the moment still quite difficult to plan more than a week or two ahead.
 So at the moment obviously we're excited to be playing here in Miami and then into Charleston, and then we know there is only a small little window between Charleston and Stuttgart.  I think that's quite an easy one.
 I think the season will feel like, you know, touch wood, that everything stays safe for us to play and we're able to play in all of the scheduled tournaments that we have seen so far, but it should roll on quite nicely and we're hopefully playing deep in tournaments and really busy playing matches.
 Q. How long are you going to stay away?  Is it going to be a case of maybe coming back home after Wimbledon or staying right through to the end of the US Open?  When you left Brisbane, were there tears and all that at the airport with the children and your parents and the family?
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, Tyz and I are ultimately prepared to stay away for the season.  Obviously with the quarantine laws in Australia, we do our two weeks' quarantine in a hotel, and there is actually not a lot of space in the season to be able to do that just to get home for the two weeks.
 So at this stage we're planning to be away until after the US Open and potentially right to the end of season.  Without a doubt it was something that was new to me, new to try and wrap my head around and comprehend where we're going to be away for such an extended period.
 Of course there were tears the days leading up.  There were tears when I did finally leave, and then when we left.  Then we were delayed and had to leave again.  It was all kind of happening.
 No, but I'm certainly happy to be here now.  We are in the rhythm of playing and I think being back out on court and competing is bringing a smile to my face.
 Q. I want to get your thoughts on your next match.  You're playing either Angelique Kerber or Victoria Azarenka.
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, obviously played Vika I think most recently at Fed Cup a couple years ago, so it was still a while ago now.  I know she had an exceptional year last year.
 She's a great friend of mine, a brilliant player and someone who I respect and look up to a lot for the way she's handled herself throughout her career.
 Of course Angie is the ultimate competitor.  She really is.  She brings disability to make you uncomfortable on the court.
 So I think that's going to be a brilliant match between those two, and then whoever does get through, certainly a match that I'll look forward to regardless of who it is.
 Q. You were talking about your schedule.  A lot of players have said this year they'd play less events, take more time off.  Sometimes can be mentally taxing to be stuck in a bubble environment.  Are you looking towards that or are you going to play almost every event that's possible?
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   I have always had the tendency to play less.  That's always just been the way that I have gone about it with myself and my team deciding, and getting back to Australia as often as possible.
 Without that, there may be a few events added this year.  But without a doubt, it's important to make sure that you're fit and firing and healthy.  That's your mental health as well.  Knowing that weeks on the road can take its toll, but we will do everything we can to be fresh and ready for all the tournaments we do play.
 Q. Thoughts on your match and expectations of tournament because you're the champion.
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   Yeah, obviously today's match was very good, very sharp.  I felt like I was in control as much as I could.  I mean, for the rest of the tournament, obviously I have very good memories from playing here in Miami, but it's all exciting.  My next match will be extremely tough regardless who it is.  But I'm looking forward to getting another chance to play here.
 Q. What do you mean this tournament, the Miami Open, for you?
 ASHLEIGH BARTY:   It's a brilliant event.  I think for me it's one of the most special weeks in my career from 2019.  Obviously the first time I broke into the top 10 and the biggest title of my career at that stage.
 I think it's a week that I look back on and it brings a smile to my face.  We have so many incredible memories from that week, and I think every time you come back to a place where you have had special memories or good results and good weeks it's always exciting to be back.  So it's nice to be back this week and playing some good tennis.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT