THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BARTY/H. Dart
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How valuable was that experience?  How enjoyable was it being on Centre Court?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's the most beautiful court in the world, isn't it?  I promised myself when I walked out there that I'd smile and try and take it all in.  And it changed a little bit since I played on there with Casey a few years ago now.
A beautiful court, very lucky to be able to play on it.
Q. In terms of experience going forward, down the road?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, any time you can play on a court, you get a taste of what the conditions are like.  But they can change day-to-day.
I think having played on that court now, I know what it's like.  But it's not too dissimilar to what I expected from a pace of court and things like that.  But obviously the surroundings are a little bit different.  Now having a taste of that, it's nice to know what it's like.
Q. You're playing matches very quick here.  Is that the matches you like to play, that will help you in the second week?  Do you need to be a bit more patient in the second week?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It'll always nice to have quick matches.  I think it's nice to know that I can go in and execute and get my job done.
In saying that, as well, a lot of my matches haven't been as easy as the scoreline suggests.  I think there have been some really tricky moments.  Today at 4-1, that was a really important game I think.  It was really nice to be able to get out of that and play some good tennis to get out of that game.
Q. I'm not sure about an overhead, you hit winners throughout this match with every possible shot you could have.  Because you have all the shots, is there one you think is your best?  Do you have a favorite that you like to hit?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I love to hit my slice.  Over and over I say that.  I think that's the shot for me that I can control the match, I can control the tempo when I use that shot.  I can use it in different ways, either offensively or defensively.
I think when I'm really clear and I'm sharp and able to use that shot how I want to, I feel like I'm in control most matches.
Q. Obviously you've come full circle since playing Riske in Birmingham and Eastbourne.  What are your memories from that match apart from being potentially tired?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I mean, it was a long time ago now.  I remember that match vividly.  Whenever Alison's back was against the wall, she produced her best tennis.  I think that's no secret.  You ask any opponent that plays Alison, she's up for the fight, makes you work for every single point.
I think it will be really important for me to go out there and try and bring my variety, take my opportunities when I get them.  Also I know she loves playing on the grass court.  She's going to make me play a million balls.  I have to be at my best.
Q. Harriet's second serve is particularly slower than what you're used to facing.  Maybe different than what you're used to coming up against.  Is it different psychologically?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Every single serve on the tour is different.  Harriet's, it's a unique serve.  Everyone has a unique serve and a unique game.  It's not that it's slower or faster.  That doesn't really matter for me.  It's more about trying to handle her game as a whole, then trying to assert myself when I could.  I felt like I was able to do that from the get-go today, a lot on my service games as well as hers.
Q. How was that feeling when you walked onto Centre Court as the first time as a singles player?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it was incredible walking out there.  I didn't see any of the presentation.  We were warming up down underneath.  A really special moment walking out onto court.  One of the best tennis courts in the world.  Privileged to be able to play on it.
Q. It's a short time since you won your first major, attained the No. 1 ranking.  How would you compare the hunger to get to those stages with the hunger to sustain that?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's exactly the same.  No matter whether I win a match or lose a match, I'm still extremely hungry and driven to try to do well, to try and grow and develop as a player and a person, trying to take as much as I can from every single match, learn from every single match, then keep going forward and keep striving to be better.
Q. From some of the great champions you've seen show that hunger, what have you learned?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I think there have been so many different champions across our sport.  Some have been extremely successful in smaller periods, others have had longevity.  I think everyone is unique, everyone has a different journey.
I'm just trying to do the best to pave my own path and enjoy my journey.
Q. In the French Open I think you said playing tennis is kind of like a puzzle, solving a puzzle for you, because you have many different shots.  The toughest thing is what kind of shot you have to hit.  How did you figure out what kind of shot?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think for me sometimes I look at a shot, I play a shot, I think the seaweed is always greener in someone else's lake.  I try and think of how else I can win the point.
Really, I just need to go about it, be really simple, make up my mind, pick my spot, hit it, and try and bring a very simple mindset and have this real clarity around how I want to play, but also knowing I have the ability to adapt and play a different shot if I need to.
Q. You spent time in the WBBL.  What did you learn the most from that?  How is it different being No. 1?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think it's really hard to say what I learnt from cricket that directly correlates with tennis.  I think one of the most special things that I experienced in cricket was the people that I met, friendships that I created with a different set of friends, athletes from a different sport.
I still am in contact with those girls now.  It's given me a really nice perspective about how other athletes go about their business, how they train, prepare.  Now I've come back to tennis, in my sport.  I feel like I've got my balance right, I've got my mix right.
I have a great team around me now that I enjoy spending time with.
Q. It felt to me like you're growing in power and confidence throughout that match.  Did you feel yourself at the start you were trying to find your range and power?  Did it suddenly click at some point?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I got better as the match went on, which was really pleasing.  It was really important for me to get out of that 4-1 game from Love-40.  In that stretch of seven or eight points after that, I played some of my best tennis.  I was in control of those points.
I think the best thing is that I didn't let up the whole match.  I kept the foot down and I was able to stay in control of most games.  Particularly early on in games, getting those first couple points.
Q. Potentially a quarterfinal match against Serena Williams, which would be pretty special here in Wimbledon, wouldn't it?  I am sure you will give the athlete's answer.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I will give the athlete's answer and say:  I'm just going to worry about Alison first.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT