WUHAN OPEN
September 24, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/C. Garcia   
4-6, 6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a pretty close one, but a strong finish. How did you turn things around? What helped in the third set?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, it's always a tough one against Caro. I know the quality that she can bring. We've always had very close matches when we've played. We practice a lot together, so we know each other's game very well.   
I had to make some small adjustments in the second set. I think I served better in the second set, was able to get a few more freebies off my first serve, protect my second at times.   
Yeah, in the third, happy to run away with it and get some momentum.   
 Q.  Any rust in the first match?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I think the quality of that first set was pretty high. It was pretty physical. It was a pretty good level. I had more than enough opportunities to hold my serve, more than enough to break. It was just kind of ebbing and flowing a little bit.   
Caro played the bigger points better in that first set. I was happy when I did get an opportunity in the second, with that last game. To break to love was really good.   
 Q.  Talking about the adjustments that you're making in that second set, through to the third, in terms of your mind when you're making those adjustments, are you telling yourself to serve better, something like get the toss higher? What is going through your mind?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think for my serve, I didn't actually think much about it tonight. I think even in the first set, I felt like my rhythm was really good. I was missing my spots, not by much. A miss is still a miss. I still gave Caro a look at a second serve.   
It was just about me being a little bit smarter with my serving and trying to be in control in those first couple of points. Then just some small adjustments off the ground to make sure I came over my backhand a little bit more.   
The slice was ineffective today with the conditions, the way that Caro is able to neutralize off that. It was important I took a little bit more of an initiative on that backhand side.   
 Q.  What in terms of the conditions were affecting the slice a little bit?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think just obviously when it got a little bit cooler, the court isn't in the sun any more, it reacts a little bit differently. There's not a lot of heat in the ball still. I think it turns into a bit of a floater, a bit of a nothing shot.   
Yeah, at times it was there. I didn't hit it poorly. I didn't hit it fabulously. I don't know if that's a word (smiling). Yeah, it was kind of a bit of a neutral shot that wasn't doing much for me.   
 Q.  There were times in the match when you were getting frustrated a little bit, maybe not frustrated but looking over to the box, giving feedback as to what you were feeling. As the match went on, that stopped. Was that a matter of your confidence went up, you didn't feel the need to turn to them? Was it you saying to stop, don't do this?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I was probably venting a little bit too much. A lot of what I'm saying is to myself. I think Tyz just cops the brunt of it. It's almost a discussion with myself, I mean, not really taking in what he's saying.   
I think at times it's just for him kind of not little cues, but, Positive, mate. It's things like that. I wasn't letting those sink in. I was kind of ignoring that in a way and just venting myself, which is no good for anyone.   
I just needed to lock down, yeah, kind of bring it back into me and focus on what I needed to do.   
 Q.  Karolina was saying because she's already qualified for Shenzhen, it's a little bit less pressure going through the next couple of events. In terms of that mindset, is that something that kind of takes a bit of the burden off or does it not affect your mindset at all?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Not really. Not really. I think this time of year is always a little bit of a strange one. I feel like there's a little bit of a strange vibe around. Everyone is tired, kind of getting through to the end of the year. Some have qualified, some haven't. Different little goals.   
I think even for me, I haven't played Beijing the last two years, last year, so I'm looking forward to making sure that I'm fresh and ready and give myself a crack next week.   
 Q.  Two years ago you lost the final here against Caroline. Was that motivation for you to win a tough match today?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I know it's going to be a tough match no matter what, particularly when you've played someone in a final at the same event. Obviously Caro loves these conditions. I find them very nice to play in, as well. I feel like it was a quality match against a good friend of mine. Glad that I could get through in the end.   
 Q.  You play Sonia next, played her a few weeks ago. What do you take from that match?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, probably take nothing from that last match. Different conditions, different balls. I feel like I'm in a better place than I was in Toronto. I feel like I've hit a lot more balls. I'm very much better prepared.   
In saying that, I have to look at that match and take into account what I didn't do well, what I did do well, and try and bring that into tomorrow as best as I can.   
I know she's been on a bit of a heater over the last probably three or four months in particular. She's been going very well and proving that she is a top player. So I'm looking forward to the challenge. Go out there and see what I can try to do tomorrow.   
 Q.  A general question about your career. Your story gets the focus of having to take time off, feeling better. On the other hand you were getting a lot of attention when you were young, tagged as someone who could be a really good player. Does that prepare you more, make you feel more secure in this position now being No. 1, Grand Slam champion?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: What do you mean?   
 Q.  Needing to take a lot of time off, having to reset. On the other hand, you actually had a lot of attention.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I see, yeah.   
Oh, I think, I mean, every experience I've learnt from, the good, the bad and the ugly. I think I've had plenty of all of them, all of the above. I've had plenty of incredible, amazing times on the tennis courts. I've had some demoralizing times. I've had some times where all I wanted to do was hide in a hole.   
I think learning from all of them, taking them all into account. I'm much more mature than I was back when I was 16, 17, kind of going through it for the first time.   
I've learnt a lot about myself. I've learnt a lot about the tour. More than anything, I just feel more comfortable to be me. I don't have to pretend to be anyone, I don't have to prove anything to anyone. I can just come out here and enjoy it for me, play for myself, my team, just try to do the best that I can.   
 Q.  You and Vika obviously are in kind of a position where if you wanted to, you could push and try to qualify for Shenzhen in doubles. Was that ever a discussion?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, well, I think for us, I had said to Vika after Wimbledon that I was looking to play Toronto and US Open, probably that was it for me for doubles for the year, just making sure my body was all good, I get my niggles under control, give myself an opportunity to finish the year really well knowing that we've got that extended week with Fed Cup.   
I think she was really open with that. We've been in discussion all year. Doubles for us, it wasn't necessarily a goal to get to Shenzhen. We got bloody close off of a handful of tournaments.   
I think, yeah, it would have been amazing if we did. From my perspective it's probably a little bit too challenging to play those extra matches, to try to push and get us to a position, especially this year with the format where it's round-robin. Adds a couple of extra matches in.   
Yeah, if we qualified, we'd have absolutely no issue. We'd give it a red-hot crack. Yeah, we're not probably in the position. Vika's at the moment struggling with her body a little bit, as well. For both of us, that was always the important thing, to put our body first.   
 Q.  We know Chinese female players, if Qiang Wang is lucky enough, you are lucky, the two of you will meet in the final. If it comes true, what is your plan?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Well, it would be a pretty good final, wouldn't it? It would be incredible.   
But I have tomorrow to worry about first. I think Q has tonight to worry about first. It's a very, very, very, very long time in between that. We'll see.   
I would love to play Q again. Obviously we have fantastic matches. So hopefully you've called it and I'll meet her in the final (smiling).   
 Q.  Do you remember the last time you fight against her?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, that's cruel (smiling). It was like three weeks ago. It was three weeks ago. US Open, that little one. Yeah, no? Have a bit of a Google. She gave me a touch-up.   
 Q.  You have taken part in most of the important tournaments in the world. Tell us the difference between the Grand Slam tournaments and Wuhan Open?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think it's different first and foremost because here in Wuhan, it's just us girls. It's nice and quiet. I think it's a little bit more relaxed. Obviously we're still very focused on trying to win our matches. But at the slams, there are so many people, so many matches. The draws are bigger, singles, doubles, mixed, juniors. It's a celebration of tennis.   
It's nice to come to these events. We're looked after just as well. It's nice and quiet and we can focus on playing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT