ROLAND GARROS
June 7, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BARTY/A. Anisimova
6-7, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You said this was your toughest match today and one of the toughest things you have been through.  Was it mentally, physically, the opponent, all of the above?  What made it so difficult?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, all of the above.  The occasion, the conditions, it was pretty brutal out there.  Yeah, I mean, I'm just proud of myself the way I was able to fight and scrap and hang in there and find a way when I kind of threw away that first set.
But at the end of the day, it's an amazing opportunity.  Yeah, I think it was just a really challenging day.
Q. On court you said you would have some good and bad memories from this win, but you got to a final in the end.  How tough was it to sort of reset after the first set and the beginning of the second set getting away from you pretty quick?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think the reset was easy after the first set.  It was kind of during it that was the toughest bit.
Yeah, I mean, I played some really good tennis.  I played some pretty awful tennis.  At the end of the day, I think I was able to scrap and fight and find a way to keep competing.  And, yeah, that's probably the best part that came out of today.
Q. Can you grasp now the opportunity that's in front of you?  Do you get a real sense of what's there now for you?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's amazing.  It's been an incredible journey the last three years.  It's been an incredible journey the last two weeks.  I feel like I have played some really good tennis, some consistent tennis.  Although that level wasn't there today for the whole match necessarily, it was there when I needed it.
And, yeah, I'm just so proud of myself the way we were able to go out there and handle it today.  All things considered, we're in a pretty amazing place now.
Q. What was going through your mind just -- you were obviously so dominant starting the match, going 5-Love up and then losing that first set.  What was going through your mind at the changeover?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it happened very quickly.  I was 5-Love up in probably all of 15 minutes, I think, and didn't really do a hell of a lot to get to that stage.  Amanda gave me some cheapies.  I felt I put the ball where I needed to, and then I went away from what was working.
Yeah, it was pretty tough to come to terms with.  Probably never done that to myself before, never been in that situation.  But I was really happy the way I was able to respond at a set and 3-Love and to really turn the match on its head, even though it wasn't the best tennis in pretty tough conditions.  That's probably, yeah, what I'm most proud of.
Q. There has been a lot of talk about the scheduling of the day and that none of the women's semifinals were on court Philippe Chatrier.  Amélie Mauresmo weighed in and the WTA weighed in.  Any opinion on that?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think for me it was an opportunity, in a Grand Slam semifinal, I will play no matter what court it is.
Obviously Philippe Chatrier is a beautiful and amazing court.  But for me, I'm scheduled where I'm scheduled.  I'll play wherever I'll play.  It's an opportunity to be in a Grand Slam semifinal.  I won't complain at all.
Q. Has reality hit you that you're actually in a Grand Slam final?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's crazy.  It really is.  And I think maybe a bit of a blessing in disguise that we're playing day after day after day just to keep the momentum going and to keep kind of the same routines ticking over and all that business.  I think it's incredible.  It really is.
Tyzz and I and my whole team have worked so hard to try to get into these positions.  Now that we're here, it's about enjoying it, embracing it, and having fun.
Q. With the conditions that were out there, can you talk through just -- obviously we could see them, but from your perspective, you know, what made them so difficult?  And then how did you combat those and what changes did you have to make, and also combat somebody who seemed to be able to really lean into that ball and get it through the court in a way that made things difficult there?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, obviously when it's overcast and raining, it's hard to get the ball to react off the clay court.  But also, as well, it was really gusty at court level.  There were times there was no wind.  There were times it was pretty strong from one end.
I think at times I struggled with my depth control and was allowing Amanda to get inside the court and get that first strike in.  That's what she's so good at.  So I think when I was able to control my depth a little bit better and kind of junk it around and use the conditions as best that I could, that's when I felt like I was in a bit more control.
Q. It was a pretty vocal crowd, particularly in those last two sets.  How important was that for you hearing the Australian support?  Have you had a chance to speak to family members and friends back home?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, you definitely hear the Australian accents in the crowd.  That's one of the best things about this Grand Slam is that the crowd is so passionate.  They are so enthusiastic.
They really get into every single match and live every single point.  It's incredible.  The noise that the people make and the kids and the families, you can hear all of these little voices.  It's incredible.  It's nice to play out in front of.
But certainly a few Australian accents in there was pretty nice to hear.
Q. Thoughts on your final opponent, Vondrousova?  You have never played on clay.  Have you seen any of her during this tournament?  What kind of challenge do you think she will present?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Probably the biggest challenge of all.  She's in a Grand Slam final.  It's incredible for both of us.
She's had an amazing record throughout the whole year, very, very consistent.  I think probably is most comfortable on the clay courts as opposed to any other surface.
I think obviously she has so much variety in her game.  She's got the ability to move the ball around the court, moves exceptionally well.
So I think for me it's an opportunity to go out there and try and bring it back to my style of tennis as much as possible and know at times it's not going to be in my control what she's able to do with the ball.
So I think it will be an exciting final for both of us, something that will be well-fought.  Yeah, we look forward to it.
Q. It's been 46 years since an Australian won here.  What would it mean to you if you do lift that trophy on Saturday?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It would be incredible.  Obviously we have seen Sam do so well here numerous times and on many occasions have been at the business end of the tournament.
It's an amazing opportunity for myself and my team.  Like I said, we have worked so hard to put ourselves in these positions.  Now we get to go out there and really enjoy it.  That's the only way to approach it is to go out and enjoy it, have fun, try and play with freedom.  That's ultimately when I play my best tennis and that's what we are after.
Q. Just in terms of playing that final and playing Vondrousova, what's your comfort level against lefties?  What is the trickiest thing and the biggest adjustment for you playing a left-hander?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I think the beauty of having Casey as my doubles partner for a few years, I saw that many left-handed serves and left-handed balls coming at me.
Obviously it's a different player, different opponent.  And Marketa has a different shape than Casey did, but for me it's no real difference.  Obviously tactically you change and adjust a few minor things, but it's about trying to bring it back to how I want to play and not falling into her patterns too much.
Q. You have played a bunch of Grand Slam finals in doubles in your career already.  Curious if you think that experience can translate especially against someone like Marketa who has never played on Chatrier before?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I hope so.  We'll wait and see (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT