THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/A. Van Uytvanck   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What pleased you the most about today's performance?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think overall today I was just really clear.  I think I did a really good job with my execution of how we wanted to play.   
Pretty sharp right from the start.  I was able to implement what I wanted to right away and put the pressure straight back on her.   
 Q.  You said the other day took a while to settle to the conditions.  Seemed like you read them straightaway today.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, bit of a different court, different conditions on every single court you play.  I think it takes some time to adjust to that.  It still took time to adjust today.  It was a little bit quicker than it was the other day.  But there's always that period where you have to adjust and adapt a little bit.   
 Q.  The women's Ashes is starting at the end of the month.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's already started.  It's game two today.   
 Q.  Are you still in touch with many of those girls?  Any kind of messages going back and forth?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I chat to them quite a lot.  There are some that I stay in touch with a little bit more than others.  We're trying to work out a time where we can catch up.  I'm not sure our schedules will align easily for us to be able to have a catch-up.  For sure we're always in contact.   
 Q.  Keeping an eye on their progress?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I am.  I am indeed.   
 Q.  What are your observations so far of Coco Gauff?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: She's incredible.  She really is.  I saw her play a few years ago.  What you see is just an incredible athlete.  I think she's got a really good head on her shoulders.  She seems very mature.   
I haven't hit with her, had much to do with her.  Just from the outside looking in, she seems like she's really enjoying her tennis.   
Looks like a big-game player.  Loves the spotlight.  Loves the moment.  But also she's earned her way here.  She earned her way through qualifying, played some exceptional tennis.  I think she's going to have a very, very bright future.   
 Q.  How do you put in perspective the accomplishment she's had to reach the third round at 15?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's amazing.  She's come through qualifying.  She's obviously feeling like she's playing some really good tennis.  She's taken her opportunity, grabbed it with both hands.  Interesting to see how far she goes.   
 Q.  You were at a high level when you were young as well, then took a break.  Do you have any advice for her to avoid burnout?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think she'll be fine.   
 Q.  Might have to play Britain's Harriet Dart in the next round.  Is there an element of danger when you have someone who is raw at a Grand Slam level?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: There's an element of danger against everyone you play.  You have to make sure you know exactly how you want to play the match.  I haven't played with her before, haven't hit with her.  Obviously a little bit new for both of us.   
I know she's playing at the moment.  It's still a match that's up in the air.  Whoever I do play in a couple days' time, I'll make sure that we're prepared as best we can, we have a game plan, try to go out there and execute.   
 Q.  You have grandparents that are English?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yes.   
 Q.  What do you know about their legacy and heritage?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Very little, to be honest.  Grandma and Grandpa came to Australia a few years ago now.  Haven't really spoken to them much about it.   
 Q.  How are you spending your days off, keeping calm and prepared?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: We haven't had any days off yet.  Played doubles yesterday, which is really nice.  Yeah, I think we'll just wait and see what the schedule is.  For us it's the same routine.  It's either we come and practice or we prepare to play.  Either way it's a pretty normal routine for us.  It's nice to be into the swing of things, to be able to just kind of keep the momentum going.   
 Q.  I'm not sure if you saw but Sam Groth said it was a disgrace that Serena didn't know you were world No. 1.  What is your response to his take on that?  Do you think the top players have a responsibility to know who at least is No. 1 in the sport?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I didn't see what Sam said.  I mean, Serena hasn't been at many of the tournaments lately.  I mean, it's not really something that I worry about.   
 Q.  Naomi Osaka talked a little bit about the pressure she's feeling right now, losing fun on the court, looking for fun again.  You were in a similar space a few years back.  What advice would you give her to have fun again?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: As I say time and time again, everyone has their own unique journey, their own path they pave.  It's impossible for me to give advice to anyone.   
What I've done in my career and my team have worked for us.  There have been some tough times, that's for sure.  There have been some incredible moments.  I think I learned a lot better over the past few years to really appreciate the position I'm in, enjoy it every single day.   
At the end of the day, it's only a tennis match.  If you win, great.  If you don't, it's not the end of the world.  I still have amazing people around me.  We enjoy each other's company every single day and try to do the best we can every day.   
 Q.  I was reading an interview, maybe with Tyz, going back to your first comeback tournament at the 50K event in Eastbourne.  You were unranked.  You got into the qualifying event because there were some spaces open up.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, the draw wasn't full.   
 Q.  I'm not sure what the rule is.  How do you enter a tournament without a ranking?  Had there been no available spaces, what would you have done?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It was a little bit of a gamble on our part to go there.  We looked at the previous few years and saw sometimes the qually draws there were not full.  It was a nice tournament for us to target.   
I was still a full member of the WTA at the time.  That was kind of how I was elevated to the top of the list when there were spaces available.  So still being a full member from when I was playing doubles a couple years back helped me to get into my first singles tournament back.   
 Q.  But if you took a bit of a gamble, what was the backup plan if that didn't work out?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: There kind of was none (smiling).  It was hang there for a week and try again the next week.  There was another 50 we were looking at.  Then again, the stars aligned for us, we got into the WTA in Nottingham.   
Yeah, it was kind of just a whirlwind kind of month that we had.  It was a massive month, an awesome month.  Luck kind of went our way a little bit.  We were able to get into draws and get our feet wet again.   
 Q.  This morning, Bernard Tomic got fined his entire match fee because of not playing to a professional standard.  Your reflections on that, what you consider to be a professional standard.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I didn't see the match, so I can't comment.   
 Q.  The singles, doubles playing seem to be working for you.  As you stay around the top echelon in singles and contending, do you think at some point the doubles have to give way?  Do you think this is something you can do?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I love to play both whenever I can.  There are times where singles takes priority, that's for sure.  That's more times where I have to listen to my body, make sure I'm giving myself enough rest to be healthy first and foremost, regardless of whether I'm preparing for singles or doubles.  I need to be healthy.   
When I can play both, it's awesome.  I enjoy it.  I love it.  I'm loving playing with Vika.  It's been really nice to get to know her on a personal level, as well.   
Yeah, at times singles will take priority.  When I'm healthy and when my body is right, we'll always try and play both.   
 Q.  Speaking of doubles, what are your thoughts on the alliance of Andy Murray and Serena Williams?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: That's an amazing partnership, isn't it?  They're going to have a lot of fun.  I don't think there's any team in the draw that wants to play them.  I think they're certainly going to be a force to be reckoned with, that's for sure.   
 Q.  Is there anything you would look for if you get the opportunity to watch them play?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think you're just going to see two of the best playing mixed doubles.  Everyone who gets to see that match, everyone who will see that match, will be amazed, I'm sure.  There will be some quality tennis from two champions of our sport.  It's going to be a pretty exciting game.   
 Q.  You've spoken about adjusting to conditions.  What do you feel perhaps in your game needs to be fully in order by the time you get to play Serena or Angela in the quarterfinals?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think that's a bit of a long shot, isn't it?   
At the moment, trying to tick all the right boxes, prepare for my next-round match.  Not even considering or thinking about those future possible matches.  It's not something that I have to worry about or think about.  It's very much one step at a time for me.  Whoever my next opponent is come Saturday, we'll worry about it then.   
 Q.  Before the order of play came out for today, were you thinking you might have had a chance to get on Centre Court?  When you do get on Centre Court, what would it mean as the world No. 1 for the first time?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: If I got to play on the court, it would be incredible.  One of the most beautiful courts in the world.  I'll play whenever I'm scheduled.  There's not a bad court here at Wimbledon, all special in their own right.  They're all very beautiful.  I certainly enjoyed playing on Court 2 today.  It was nice to hear some Aussies out there, get some support.  It was incredible.   
 Q.  Harriet Dart might secure this victory.  If it is her, what is it going to be like playing on one of the big courts with the crowd against you?  How much level of detail do you know against your next opponent?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Are they still going or has she won?   
 Q.  She's 4-1 up.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: So they're still going.  We don't know yet.   
 Q.  If it is her, what would it be like if you're playing a British crowd supporting an opponent?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: If it is her, there's still a long way to go.  I wouldn't be playing a British crowd; I'm playing against Harriet.  Yes, she'll get more support being in Britain, as I would if we were in Australia.  It's no different.   
I mean, I don't need to worry about that for at least another couple of games if she closes it out.  We'll worry about it then.   
 Q.  When you have not played an opponent before, do you do forensics or...  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: We do the same regardless of the opponent.  If I played them two weeks ago, if I've never played them before, we're very diligent with what we do tactically.  Tyz is one of the best.  I'm always very clear when I go out on the court knowing what I want to do.  Whoever the opponent is on that day, I try and execute as best I can.   
 Q.  One of your biggest fans is Rod Laver.  It's 50 years since he won here at Wimbledon.  Do you take an interest in the history of the sport?  Whether you've spoken to him about his experiences here, if he has divulged any tips to you?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, of course I take interest.  As an Australian tennis player, we have such an incredible history in tennis.  We have so many amazing legends in our sport.  We're very fortunate to have had people play before us who have done amazing things over and over and over again.   
I haven't spoken to Rod in any detail about his matches or his experiences, but I certainly know what he's achieved.  He's a remarkable human being.  It's really special for him to have his 50th anniversary come up here.   
 Q.  John Millman just won his game.  Is that a nice feeling?  Do you see the other Australians very much?  Is there a group mentality at all?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it's always nice when you see them have a win.  Especially for Johnny as a Queenslander, we both train at the same place at home.   
Obviously we keep an eye on all of the other matches going on for Australians, singles, doubles, mixed.  Usually there's an extra special interest when your countrymen and women are playing.   
In the same breath, we're also on different tours a lot of the time.  It is nice to cross over in slams.   
 Q.  Will you be watching Kyrgios-Nadal this afternoon?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I'll be watching the cricket this afternoon (smiling).   
 Q.  This time last year would you have imagined this is a spot you would be in?  Have you had a moment to sit with yourself and congratulate yourself?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's been an incredible journey, it really has.  It's been important for us to celebrate the little things.  It's even nice when I call back home a lot of the time.  I chat to my niece.  Over and over she tells me you can go to infinity and beyond.  She's an incredible little girl who gives me so much inspiration.   
It's been a very nice journey for myself, my team, my family, everyone.  To be where we are now is really special.   
 Q.  Can we have her name and how old she is?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Lucy, three.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT