THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/Zheng S.   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Pretty happy with that as a first-round hit?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think a very tricky opponent to start off with.  Very happy with the way we were able to work our way into the match.  Took some time to adjust to conditions and a different court.  It's a beautiful court to play on.  Yeah, enjoyed every match.   
 Q.  After missing last week, your now ranking, good to get out there and get going?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it was.  Kind of came into it thinking kind of like hakuna matata, just relax and go for it.  Really nice to come in here, get stuck into that first match.   
 Q.  How was the experience of playing on a big court in singles I think for the first time here?  What was it like to get out there?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, beautiful court.  Had some really nice memories from juniors playing my final on that court.  Played I think a doubles semi with Case on Court 1.  We have some really, really nice memories.   
I walked out there and was kind of fangirling for a minute.  It was really nice.  Just a beautiful court to start on.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of talk about the pressure that comes with being No. 1.  How do you feel about it?  Something you embrace?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think for me it's a little bit irrelevant.  The only pressure I have is what I put on myself, making sure I'm doing all the right things, preparing in the right way.  Ultimately when we play our matches, we go out there and enjoy it.  That's why we do all the work, all the practices, to go out there and enjoy competing.   
Yeah, just play each match as it comes.  There's certainly no extra stresses on any match.   
 Q.  Has Trent Cotchin sent you a message since you got to world No. 1?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I spoke to Cotch.  I spoke to him yesterday after he played as well.  It was nice to see him back in the park.  I keep in touch with Cotch regularly, more about life in general than specifics in sport.  But it was nice to hear from him.   
 Q.  How do you think your rival, the Chinese player, Saisai?  Naomi Osaka told us she doesn't want to be No. 1 because too much more pressure.  You are No. 1 now.  Do you enjoy it?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I've had some very tough matches against Saisai in the past.  We've played a few times now.  It's always a big challenge playing up against her.  Played her I think most recently in Wuhan last year.  Again, different playing her in China, as well.   
Always a challenge.  The one I enjoy playing, she brings so much variety to the court, as well.   
As for Naomi, I can't really comment on what she says.  We've had an incredible year.  To be where we are is really exciting.  Loving every minute.   
 Q.  If there was one frailty in your game today, it appeared to be your serve was a little bit off.  Is that of concern to you?  Coming up for your next match against a Belgian opponent, what do you need to improve on what you did today?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: My serve was there when I needed it.  In big points it was there.  It's certainly no stress for me.  That's not something I ever worry about.  It took some getting used to with the change of end to end, as well.  My serve is not something I ever really worry about.   
 Q.  Your opponent?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I've played Alison before on hard courts.  Haven't played her on the grass.  She has the ability to take the game away from you pretty early in rallies.  A big serve, a big first shot after her serve.  It will be important for me to neutralize the best that I can and bring variety into the match, as well.   
 Q.  Ever since you became world No. 1, do you feel you have more responsibility to be a role model for people and speak how about women's tennis?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I try and be a role model by just setting an example when I play.  I don't try to do anything extra.  If I can make a difference into one person's life, it would be incredible.   
For me, it's just about trying to go about my business the right way.  I'm very lucky to have family, my parents in particular brought me up in a very respectful and certain way.  I try to live by that every single day regardless of whether I'm on the tennis court or just living my everyday life.   
For me I try to do the best that I can every single day.  If that can inspire any person around the world, that would be incredible.   
 Q.  You practiced yesterday with Kiki Bertens.  Are the practice courts playing differently to Court 1?  A change in speed?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, massively so.  Just had more foot traffic.  They're a bit quicker.  Everyone is out there practicing.  I don't think Court 1 had any play on it aside from yesterday with the matches.   
Centre Court and Court 1 always typically start off a little bit slower.  The match courts this year were slower than I remember.  They'll quicken up with more foot traffic and with more play.   
 Q.  Nick and Jordan were playing a pretty entertaining match while you were on the court.  Talking about being a role model, growing up taught to be respectful, what do you think watching Nick play?  Is it entertaining, pull your head in?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I didn't see any of it today.  We were warming up when they started.  I was warming up physically when they were playing.  I didn't see any of it.   
 Q.  In a general sense, what about previous matches you've seen, what do you think of his attitude?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Not often do the two of us actually cross paths.  We probably only play a handful of tournaments when we're in the same place.  I don't really watch a lot of his matches.  I don't watch a lot of tennis matches in general.  It's not really for me to comment on.   
 Q.  There was a bit of talk back in Australia, Channel 7 played a bit of the Nick Kyrgios match instead of your game.  Should the broadcasters work out a way to make sure everyone gets a fair run, particularly in women's tennis?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: How do you want me to answer that one?  If people can watch y matches, great.  If they can't, they can't.  That's up to the broadcasters, not me.   
 Q.  Fed Cup, change in format.  Australia was in the last final.  What are your thoughts on that, the change of format?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, it was only confirmed a few days ago.  The details that I've read and the details that I've been given are pretty vague at the moment.   
I mean, we're pretty excited to be in our first final in a few years.  It will be really good to finish off the season for all of us in Australia.  There's no better way in a final playing for your nation.   
Next year is going to be an extremely busy year obviously with Fed Cup changes, with the Olympics, a full schedule as it is.  I think it will be busy, but, yeah, I guess we'll just see how the change goes.  We won't know until we play it.   
 Q.  What would it mean to finish off a season where you won a major, you got No. 1, and you win Fed Cup?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It would be a pretty good year, wouldn't it (smiling)?   
 Q.  Does the idea of it seem absurd to you at all in terms of what you thought this season might look like back in January?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, it would be an incredible season.  It's already been an incredible season.  I think for having the opportunity to finish off just playing Fed Cup for my country is something I've always loved to do.  To play in a final is the pinnacle for us.   
I think we've now got the opportunity to go out there and play at home, play in front of our home crowd, enjoy it, try to do our very best.  If we come away with a win, it's incredible.  If we don't, we've still come so far and done everything we can.   
I think it's a hell of a way to finish off a year.   
 Q.  You're obviously managing your arm, yet you're playing doubles.  Why do you play doubles?  Is that to keep the rhythm going, playing games rather than perhaps practicing?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I love doubles.  I've always tried to play doubles when I can.  For me it keeps in a routine of playing matches.  If the schedule kind of works in your favor, you can go day on/day off with singles and doubles.  Playing competition is why we play this sport.  It's much more fun than being out on the practice court.   
 Q.  I think only Serena in the last 20-odd years has won French Open-Wimbledon back-to-back.  What makes that such a difficult thing to try to do?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's a change of surface.  Complete change in conditions, in everything.  For only one person to have done it in 20 or so years, as you said, for it to be Serena, shows just how exceptionally hard it is.   
For me it's a possibility, but it's certainly not something we're thinking about.  It's about going match by match, trying to do the best that I can in every single tennis match that we play here.  If we can give ourselves the opportunity, that would be great.   
 Q.  You had a very nice reception in the end, very warm from the crowd.  You must have felt that?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, an incredible reception.  I think when we walked out as well, it was really special for both Saisai and myself.  It wasn't only one of us on the tennis court.  It was really nice to be able to share that with Saisai.   
It's an incredible court, Court 1.  The crowd was awesome.  It was really nice to play in front of a pretty full crowd, on a court that I have so many good memories.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT