ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/S. Kenin   
6-3, 3-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Being able to close it out so well in the third set, how satisfying was that for you going forward?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, really good.  I think I lost my way a little bit tactically in the second.  And Sofia served particularly well, especially early in the second set.   
And I didn't really get too many looks at second serves until that game up 5-3, but I felt that was a really important game to try and get a little bit of momentum going into the third.   
And then, yeah, tactically in the third set, I was much smarter and sharper out there.   
 Q.  Madison next up.  Not so long ago that you played her.  What are your feelings about this on clay?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I played her here at the French Open a few years ago in a match I would love to forget.  So I think it's very much a fresh, clean slate from this match, at Fed Cup that we had as well.  Different surface.  I mean, as different as you can probably get, indoor hard to an outdoor clay court.   
I think it's an amazing opportunity for me to go out there and try and play my brand of tennis again, and take it to her as much as I can.  She's obviously had really good success here in the past.   
 Q.  What a difference from the day before yesterday and yesterday to today.  How does that impact your way of playing tennis?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, very bizarre.  Very, very drastic change.  And I think I said after my last singles match, the conditions here can change I think the most out of any Slam, depending on the weather.   
And I think today was probably the first time I've ever played in that -- I mean, that really heavy damp with a bit of drizzle.  I haven't really played in that much before.   
So I think it was a new experience for me today, but I felt like I handled it really well and obviously didn't let it upset me too much.   
 Q.  Were you aware of Rod's tweet about hoping you can go all the way with the photograph he took with you out the front?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I was but not until after the match.  It popped up on my feed.   
But, yeah, I mean, he's an incredible person.  It was pure luck that our cars arrived at the same time.  I think it was a couple of days ago yesterday.   
But he's an amazing champion.  It's really nice to be able to play in front of him.  And, yeah, a very, very special guy.   
 Q.  You'll be playing on Wednesday.  If so, how does that fit in with your plans or not to watch Origin?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I kind of forgot about Origin, actually.  But I think more than anything, I think I have a day off tomorrow to watch a bit of the World Cup, which will be good.   
A pretty cruisey practice day.  And then obviously again, we'll try and watch a little bit.  We'll all have a streaming site up there somewhere to keep an eye on it.   
 Q.  I don't have to ask you who you're following on Wednesday.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, not really.  But it's actually something that I have never really followed too much.  So I kind of drifted away from the NRL a little bit to get a little bit more target time with the AFL.   
But, yeah, Queensland through and through.   
 Q.  And expectation?  Do you sense any sort of intensifying around that at the moment?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, myself?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yes and no.  I think obviously's there's a little bit more talk around and a little bit more attention.  But for me, nothing changes.  Very much we go through the exact same process after a match.  Whether it's a win or a loss, it's the same recovery, same everything.   
And, yeah, I think that's probably what I've been doing best over the last 12 to 18 months.  And it's put me in better positions.  I'm in these positions now because I'm doing that better.   
So I think, you know, it's pretty incredible to be in this position now, deep into another Slam, and a hell of an opportunity.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT