SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/A. Barty
1-6, 7-5, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you absorb that?  Seemed like everything was going your way in the first.  To lose in the way you did, is it tough to take or do you feel quite inspired by it?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, of course it's tough to take.  It's hard to put in words at the moment, but, yeah, look, it's been a hell of a week.  I mean, I couldn't have left anything more out on the court.
Petra came up with the goods when she needed it today.  Sometimes when you play Petra, you have those matches where a lot of the time it's out of my control.
Yeah, look, she had the courage and she was brave in that (indiscernible) in particular to take the game on, and she deserved to win today.
Q. It was pretty hot when you got started.  How did that affect your play?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I felt physically fine.  I noticed towards the end she looked like she was gassed a little bit and took a few more risks and they paid off for her today.  She had the bravery to be able to do that.
I have to tip my cap to her.  She played an extraordinary match today.  I have had an amazing start to 2019 and probably three or four points shy of being exceptional, really.
Q. Can you compare, I guess, the preparation this year compared to last year's preparation?  Do you feel the same going into the Open?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think they are both different.  I'm a different player than I was 12 months ago.  I feel like I'm a much better player.  I'm a more complete player.
You know, certainly with a week like this, I have had probably one of the best weeks of my career.  You know, I feel like I'm playing great tennis.  Yes, it's a bitter pill to swallow tonight, but we move on, we keep working, and we have a slam to look forward to in a couple days' time.
Q. What were you thinking after that first set?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Well, quite clearly, to be honest.  I mean, Petra was a little bit erratic in that first set, and was probably not as much in it as the scoreline suggested.  I mean, she probably made a few too many errors and then was able to rein in her game in the second and third.
Q. You've beaten a number of players in the top 12.  Do you take even more confidence from that going into next week that you can beat anyone?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I feel like I have always had the belief that I can do that.  Always had the belief that, you know, I can beat anyone in the world.  I think this week has been that level.
Top 10 wins are hard to come by any time throughout the whole year, let alone a couple in a row and a couple in one week.  I feel like I'm playing really good tennis.
I am severely disappointed tonight, but we move on and we have another chance in a couple days' time to play another match.
Q. How is Craig?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, he's good.  He's all right.  He's a little crook but he's fine.
Q. Was that a factor at all?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, not at all.
Q. You spoke about Petra taking risks that paid off.  Are you going to be prepared to take more risks next week?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: That's her game style.  She has a much more aggressive game style than I do.  That's no secret.  She has a much bigger game than I do.
I think at times I had balls that I could have been more aggressive on.  Hindsight is a beautiful thing.  I'd love to have five or six forehands and backhands back again, but that's not the way the cookie crumbles.  That's not how sport works.
Look, I'm extremely proud of myself this week, proud of my team the way we have prepared and done everything we can possible.  Like I said, it's this close to an exceptional start to 2019.
Q. What was the crowd like out there?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Amazing, absolutely phenomenal.  I think that's probably the fullest I have ever seen Ken Rosewall Arena.  And in particular to see so many boys and girls and to hear so many boys' and girls' voices around and during the match was truly amazing.
Q. Were you particularly happy with way you took down Petra's serve?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, she's got one of the best serves on tour.  That's no secret.  At times she served particularly well, and I couldn't get into any service games.  Other times she let me in a little bit, being a little bit erratic.
I just had to try and weather the storm the best that I could and give myself an opportunity.  And a couple of times I gave myself half a sniff and wasn't able to take it.
I mean, we can look at this match in so many fine details and so many things that I would love to take back, but at the end of the day, I lost 6 in the third.  Can't really get much closer.
Q. What are your thoughts about next week?  So many people behind you.  It's going to be a good week.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, I will give myself a day to digest what we have done over the last two weeks and obviously get to Melbourne and start preparing as best that we can.
Look, I'm so excited to be back at the Australian Open.  It's the best time, well, the best way for us to start the year as Australians.
Yeah, I mean, we'll worry about that Sunday night and Monday morning.  But for now, I give myself a day to celebrate what we have been able to achieve the last two weeks.
Q. You are a great hope next week for Australia.  Is that something you embrace, I guess, that expectation or that following?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I think the only expectation is that that I put on myself, to do everything right and to put myself in a position to perform as best that I can.  The support we get in Australia is phenomenal.  All Australians, you ask any one of them, it's spine-tingling at times.
You know, I'm excited to get out there and try and play my best tennis for myself, my team, and the Australian public, but there is certainly no extra pressure from them.  I think if anything it's embracing the support that you do get.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT