HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 30, 2018
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you just talk through the match a little bit.  Obviously a different result from the first time that you played.  Where do you think her game maybe changed over the last 12 months?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, we've played a few times this year.  I think today in particular her serve was the difference and getting that first strike, controlling the points of her first serves and behind her first serves.
Disappointed not to come away with a win, but I have another opportunity in the next few days to finish my season on a real high.
Q. How has the turnaround been for you from Singapore to here?  Were you able to get as much preparation as you wanted for your opening match and all that sort of good stuff?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, we arrived late, not yesterday evening, the evening before.  Got a practice session in yesterday.  Yeah, feeling pretty good.
It was a tight turnaround, but it's certainly a good problem to have towards the end of the season being able to be involved in both finals weeks.  But, yeah, we're fine coming in.
Q. Next one against Garcia that you'll play.  What are your thoughts on that match?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, obviously she's an absolute quality player.  One of my better mates on tour as well.  So it's nice to see her here, I mean, playing to finish the year strongly as well.
We haven't played in a while.  Yeah, it's been a while, I think.  But, no, it will be a great match.  It won't be dissimilar to today.  I'm going to have to be ready and try to neutralize as best I can on my returning games.
Q. Obviously we have Singapore with the top eight players.  What do you make of the field here in terms of what -- just what your thoughts on it, just a field of quality players?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's phenomenal.  I think last year was good, but this year is another level.  It's really exciting for the women's game.  We have the top 20 players in the world this year who are fighting right until the end of the season.  Really positive.
Most of us, if not everyone, is healthy and being able to keep going for a really good season.
Q. Then when you talk about depth of the game, how we see that in the field in Zhuhai, how does that depth manifest itself for you?  Where do you see it the most?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think, yeah, that success just breeds success, especially between countrymen.  And I think we're starting to see now that there are countries with more girls at the top level.
I think the girls at the top are pushing the younger ones on and inspiring the ones that are younger to try and do the very best that they can.  I know from an Australian point of view it is certainly happening.  I think it's happening across a lot of countries around the world, which is creating a really, really  exciting top 20, 30, 40, 50 in the world in women's tennis.
Q. During the match you tried to use different shots, just like a slice and drop shot.  How do you identify your playing style?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Exactly that.  In all of my matches I like to use variety and try and bring in different shots.
Q. You had few success in the last few years.  What's your goals in the next year?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, this year for me was about consolidating my spot in the top 20.  We've had a great year,  we really have, both in the singles and the doubles court.
So obviously next year I'd like to do very much the same and keep pushing towards top 10.  Maybe one day it will happen, maybe it won't, but I'll do my very best through the pre-season and starting next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT