WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2018
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BARTY/A. Pavlyuchenkova
6-2, 5-7, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough one.  What made the difference in the third set?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think I had opportunities the second set.  I just let them slip.  It was nice to be able to take a couple of my opportunities in the third.  Certainly would have been nicer to get it done in straights today.
No, very tough match.  Could have gone either way in the end.
Q. What were you particularly pleased you were able to execute today?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think I was able to use my slice effectively.  Nasti came up with a few different tactics that I didn't think she would.  We have to adjust a little bit.  Certainly happy with the way I was able to look after most of my service games, then try to dig my way as best I could into hers.
Q. The roof was open today.  Was the ball doing what you wanted it to do a little bit more today than it was yesterday?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, a little bit more.  But obviously the conditions, they are what they are.  Obviously it can change dramatically here.  When you're indoors, it's a little bit cooler, to when it's warm, it can change drastically.
I think we both handled it pretty well.  Just accepted it for what it is, just tried to chip away as best I can.
Q. What is your reaction, what does it mean for you to make the semifinals here again?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it's obviously a really nice position to be in.  I love that center court.  It really is a beautiful center court.  It's just nice to be able to back up a result from last year.  It's obviously always in the back of your mind, worrying -- not worrying about, but knowing you've played here well before gives you that extra confidence to come out and play freely.
I've been able to do that in my last couple of matches a little bit better.  Certainly happy to be in another semifinal.
Q. You're the only seed in the quarterfinals.  Do you pay attention to that at all?  Is it surprising for you?  Do you not look at other results?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Obviously I'm aware of it.  But, no, I think the other girls that are in the quarterfinals have absolutely earned their spot.  That's the way the cookie crumbles sometimes.  There were some ripping matchups in the first and second rounds.  Big players are knocking out big players.  It's the way it is when not everyone is seeded.
But there certainly is some good tennis to be played in the rest of the quarterfinals.
Q. This part of the season, the Asian swing, what are the mental and physical challenges for you after the US Open to kind of get pumped again for this part?  How do you motivate yourself?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it is a challenge.  That's no secret.  I think everyone will say that.  But I think, I mean, two really big tournaments, here and Beijing.  Then obviously looking forward to Moscow and the Champs.  They're opportunities to play big events and to play well.
I think that's the most important thing.  You have be able to refresh obviously at times during the year.  There are ebbs and flows during the year.  You need to try to peak as best you can for the big tournaments.
Q. The immediate target is the Wuhan Open.  The way you've progressed, feeling good about how you started the tournament, what are the targets for you?  Where would you like to end 2018?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Obviously on the best note as possible.  Whether that is results-based or feelings-based, I think for me, I just need to continue to do the right things, to try and take every match as it comes.  At the end of the season it's important to do that, I think more so than any other time.
Look, we've got another opportunity in a semifinal.  First and foremost we'll go out there tomorrow and try to be in with our best to get a crack at another title.
Q. For people who don't necessarily get to come to China, whether it's fans or journalists or players that have never come over here to play, what do you think are some of the things that people who have not had boots on the ground here, they might not see through a screen or reading the coverage?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it is very different.  I think I first came to China when I was 13 years old for a world junior teams quallies.  Yeah, it's something that you have to experience.  It's really tough to explain.
Cultures all around the world are very different.  I know Australian culture is different.  To me that's normal.  I think you have to be able to respect and embrace other cultures.
That's what makes this part of the season so unique, is we get to come to different places.  Wuhan is very different to Beijing.  Then even coming from Tokyo last week, it's different all around when you're only in a couple hours' flight.
I just think you have to be able to embrace it.  There are going to be certain things you like and dislike all around the world.  It's hard to explain.  I think you have to come here to really understand it.
Q. What are some of the things you've learned to embrace over time being here?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think you learn it all throughout the year, of where you are, different cultures.  You learn to just not put up with it, but it is what it is.  Wherever you are in the world, you have to kind of mold yourself into fitting into that culture.  That's the way it is.
We're not here for very long.  We're here for a couple weeks, then we move on.  It's no different to going to Europe for three or four weeks.  You fit in there, then you kind of move on.  Whether it's time change, Madrid, everything is pushed back a little bit, Australia, we're up early, everything is happening early.
I think you just learn to fit in with what's happening around you, then try and go about business as best you can.
Q. Looking ahead, either Sabalenka or Cibulkova.  Talk through both of those potential matchups.  Also a little bit on Sabalenka, in particular, she's kind of rocketed up the last few months, maybe is a little bit newer to the scene than Domi is.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Absolutely.  She's had a phenomenal season.  She really has.  It was bound to happen, to be honest.  She's an absolute quality player.  That match this afternoon is going to be a ripping match.  Domi is back to her best, I think.  She's had a few ebbs and flows this year, but we all know what she's capable of, winning the very biggest tournaments in the world.
I think Aryna is so comfortable at the moment, there will be some very good ball-striking in that match.  Yeah, it will be a ripping one.
Q. Your game is quite unique.  How much pleasure do you take in the creativity you bring to the court?  Is it sometimes difficult because you've got a lot of options?  Does it make it tougher in terms of shot selection or is it all instinctive?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It's very instinctive to me.  That's the way I was taught.  That's where I find my fun in tennis, is when I go out there, play freely, be creative.
I think every single person and every player has a unique game.  Yes, there are some similarities.  Everybody is unique, has different preferences, things like that.
Yeah, for me, I play my best when I'm out there having fun and trying to be as creative as possible.
Q. Any specific hot shots you've done that you look again at on YouTube or something?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Actually one around-the-net post at US Open just recently was pretty cool (smiling).
Q. After the match ended, you said Pavlyuchenkova got quite aggressive, that you weren't able to counter that immediately.  How did you work your plan around that sudden aggression you faced?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, I know Nasti is always very aggressive, gets after the ball particularly on returns.  She was able to get hold of a few early in some service games, put me under the pump.
I think my position there is I'm trying to make her play as many balls as possible, trying to get neutral off that first return, then build from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT