AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/M. Sharapova   
4-6, 6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You were really threatened there towards the finish.  How does it feel to be able to get the victory?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, absolutely.  Maria was never going to go away.  Proven champion.  Time and time again it proves she will fight until the last point.   
I knew it was important in particular that 4-3 game to try and get out of that service game.  Yeah, I gave myself opportunities to go 5-Love and I think 5-2, as well.  Just couldn't execute.  Was doing all the right things but very happy to come through in the end.   
 Q.  What do you have to do different this time against Petra?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Win a couple more important points, I suppose, yeah, compared to Sydney.  It's exciting that I get to have another chance at Petra straightaway.  Not often does that happen where you get to kind of have a replay against the same opponent.   
Really exciting, but, yeah, really pumped to have another chance here.   
 Q.  We were a little bit surprised the match wasn't in prime time tonight.  Did you request a day match for today?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Well, it's beautiful this time, playing at this time of day.  Obviously I love it when it's warm and when it's bouncy out there.  We were scheduled for this time of day, yeah, it was good for both of us.  Any time you can play on that court, doesn't matter what time of day.   
 Q.  Will you request a day game for your quarterfinal or whatever Tennis Australia throws at you?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Whatever we get, we are happy to play anywhere.   
 Q.  Do you think you would have won a match under the circumstances of today, say, even 12 months ago?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I mean, I wasn't in this opportunity, so it's kind of hard to say, because obviously it wasn't, didn't give myself the chance to maybe have this opportunity.   
But, you know, so excited that we have been able to, I mean, play well throughout the whole summer.  In particular, give myself a chance here to go deep, which is one of the ultimate goals for '19 was to try and really get my teeth sunk into slams and get deep into the second week.   
 Q.  You were quite frustrated when Maria took that extended break.  What was going through your head at that time?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I mean, she's within the rules of the game.  You can take a toilet break, you are allowed one toilet break per match.  I think she just went to the locker room as opposed to the one that was close to the court.  There is nothing I can do.  I just have to wait, and I know she was playing by the rules that are in the rule book.   
Didn't bother me at all.  I was able to keep the ball rolling in the third, anyway.   
 Q.  Any problems physically for you at all today?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I felt great.  You know, I think it was important for me to take the day yesterday to try and recover and get in as best shape as possible to make sure I could perform today.  Yeah, the physios have worked their magic and I'm good to go.   
 Q.  You are an icon not only in Australia but among the aboriginal community.  What does your win mean to that community?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I think it's -- I mean, I don't really think of that.  I try and set a good example and try and be a good role model by my actions.   
I know my team are extremely proud of me.  I know the indigenous community would be, Evonne and Roger are.  I mean, it's really nice accolades to get but when I'm out on the court I'm just trying to fight as hard as I can for every single point, try and play the game in the right spirit, and play as hard as I can, play fairly and give it a crack.   
 Q.  The first-serve percentage, you were slightly behind, but double faults you were ahead.  Were you mindful of these two things coming neck to neck?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, yes and no.  It's not something I particularly focus on, obviously.  I try and serve as little or as few double faults as possible.  It's a free point for my opponent.  I know Maria went through a stage where she gave me a few free points consecutively.   
Look, I try to look after my own service games and then deal with whatever comes from their serve.   
 Q.  If you're happy to go into more detail in the final game, when you served what everyone thought was an ace, challenge, double fault, missing other points, how hard was it to stay calm in the moment and serve it out, given this was obviously the biggest match of your career, going for first slam quarterfinal, with the opponent at the other end, what was it like?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, the atmosphere was really unbelievable.  It really was.  That first match point, my ears were ringing.  Yeah, I think I missed a couple of serves by a few millimeters, and went for the wrong serve on a second serve on match point.  But really happy to close it out in the end and, yeah, the crowd were unbelievable.   
I have never quite played in Rod Laver when it's been that full, I think.  Especially against a champion like Maria who has proven it time and time again that she can come back from any deficit.  She's proven herself in the biggest stages.  It's pleasing.   
 Q.  Easy to stay calm?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, look, I felt like for me it's have to stay in the moment as best that you can.  It's impossible sometimes.  But, look, I knew I had to just go up, try and hit my spots on serve and trust the fact that I have done the work.  My team and I know the plans that we wanted to play to.  When push comes to shove, try and execute that as best I can.   
 Q.  You mentioned the Brisbane Heat after the match.  Do you think you would be in this position if you didn't step away from tennis?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, absolutely.  I needed to take that time away.  I feel like I came back a better person on and off the court, a better tennis player.  Yeah, for me, having that 18 months off was vital.   
 Q.  There was a lot of attention on you.  That's only going to grow over the next couple of days.  How do you deal with that?  Do you try and stay away from that or what do you do for the next day or so?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think for me nothing changes.  We go through the exact same processes and same routines I would go through whether it's a first round or quarterfinal.  It's exciting.  No doubt about that.   
But I try not to look too much into it.  I get to embrace and enjoy the fact I'm playing in Australia and get to extend my summer a little bit longer and play in front of the best crowds in the world and really try and enjoy it.   
For me, my processes and routines don't change.  I just go out there and prepare for another match.  You know, if I can execute and do the right things, that's a bonus.   
 Q.  It's very much always one match at a time, I know, but have you looked forward at all and see how the draw is filling out for you?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I haven't.   
 Q.  The first lady in ten years to make the quarterfinals here at Melbourne Park, an Australian.  Can you explain how you feel about that and if it's something you ever imagined happening?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it's just so exciting.  I mean, these are the moments we train and we practice and prepare for.   
You know, sitting down with my team late last year, it was one of the goals we set out that we wanted to go deep into slams, and I feel like that was the next step for me.  It's amazing that it's happened in Australia and is happening in Australia.   
I have given myself the opportunity and the chance to play in front of the best crowd in the world on one of the best courts in the world and in my home slam.  There is absolutely nothing better.   
 Q.  You play differently than most of the other girls.  Have you ever watched yourself play on television, recording, and say wow to some of the shots?  And also, can you say how you have improved as a player, from, say, 18 months ago?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think every single player is different.  Yes, there are some similarities with game styles and things like that, but I think every single player is unique.  That's certainly what I love about the sport is that I can go out there and play an Ash Barty style of tennis and I know no one else has that.  I get to enjoy it.   
I don't really ever watch myself or watch too many of my matches.  I have been there and felt it firsthand.  Some of my best memories are from shots I played and moments on the court.  It's not really something I go back and look at.  It's more enjoying the moment and getting to try and develop and create a fun kind of free game style that I like to play.   
 Q.  You just mentioned the Ash Barty style of tennis.  How would you describe the Ash Barty style of tennis?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Oh, I think I love to play with freedom and fun and try and create as much variety as possible.  Obviously my game is built around my serve and forehand and bringing in a variety with the slice.   
But there are no secrets in tennis.  I think every day I try and challenge myself to add another string to my bow in a sense and try and become the complete player.  I think that's my biggest goal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT