AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2019
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/L. Kumkhum   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I'm going to ask you an American foreigner question.  As someone coming here and looking, reading your newspapers, watching your television, there's such a hunger for a champion.  Where do you think that comes from?  You have a deep, rich tradition in tennis.  How does that affect you?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think Australians in general love their sport.  That's certainly no secret.  We've been very spoiled across all codes and forms of the game to have legends, those that have achieved unthinkable things, especially in tennis as well.  We've had legends throughout all of tennis history in Australia.   
Australians are hungry for sport.  They love it.  They're addicted to it.  I think at this time of the year it always floats around with tennis that they're looking for an Australian player, in particular, to go deep and have a really good run.   
 Q.  Do you feel it?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, no, I don't think you do.  I think for me it's more about focusing on what I can with my tennis and my game, then going out there on the court and trying to enjoy it, embrace it, and play with freedom.   
 Q.  Your reflections on the match?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It took a little while to get going.  A couple slow games at the start.  Once I got moving and into the rhythm of things, obviously it's a little bit different conditions from here as it is to Sydney, felt like I was comfortable.   
I served well, was able to get into return games really well, which is always a positive for me.  When I can control the ball off the first shot after serve and return, especially with my forehand, that's when I'm in control most matches.   
 Q.  With a short turnaround from Sydney to tonight, did you feel that out there?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: That's a good problem to have, though.  You know any time you enter a tournament before a slam, there's always the possibility you'll be arriving late.  It's a very good problem to have.   
No, I mean, yesterday had the day off, was able to relax and everything.  Came in here today, kind of got used to the surrounds that they've changed.  Remarkable changes what Tennis Australia has been able to do with all the facilities here, we're extremely spoiled.  Had a bit of a look around and then get into the same routine like it's any other match.   
 Q.  Has not having Craigy affected you at all?  It doesn't seem like it has.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, no.  The work is done.  I know Tyz is watching.  I know I'll speak to him like we would debrief any other match.  He just wasn't physically in the stands today.   
But no, I mean, we talk about the same things before a match.  It's just by phone call as opposed to person.  I'm extremely lucky to have a Fed Cup captain like Mol who can step in and help out.  It's a very seamless transition.   
I have played under her a couple times every year.  She's around a lot of the tournaments.  It's a very seamless transition and makes it very easy for me.   
 Q.  There were seven Australian wins today.  Does that add to what's been a pretty special day for your and the country?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: We all aware of it, absolutely.  Especially on the female side, there's a few young Aussies that got a win today.  Really exciting.  Particularly a couple of Queenslanders that I train with often.  Really excited for them.  I think it's shown the depth that is in Australian tennis on the female side.   
Yes, those players at the moment are outside the top 100, between 100, 300 in the world, but they're absolutely scratching the surface.  I don't think it will be long before they're breaking through that ceiling.  That was on its way today.   
 Q.  What do you know about your next opponent?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I've played her in doubles once before.  Obviously it's a little bit of a different game.  Yeah, I think I'll sit down with Tyz over the next 24 hours and, exactly the same, whether he's physically here or not, whether he's able to be, it will be a chat about what we want to go and execute out on the court more so from my end and trying to exploit a few thing from hers.   
 Q.  You're going deeper and deeper into singles tournaments.  Do you think at some point that's going to affect how much doubles you play?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think even last year I played a little bit of a restricted doubles calendar with CoCo.  There were times when we had planned to play tournaments, but for other reasons we weren't able to, it didn't work out for us.  Certainly no stress with me.   
Yeah, I mean, doubles is always going to be a massive part of my career.  It was from when I very first began.  I would love to continue playing doubles right throughout my career.  It's one of the best parts about tennis and I thoroughly enjoy it.   
 Q.  Do you need to challenge them to come up with a few more new chants?  Great to have such a big support crew.  Ever had anything like that?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it's always very special at home, especially Margaret Court Arena.  It's close and intimate with the crowd.  It's a beautiful court.  The Vegemite fans are very cool.  The fans all across Australia, the support I received in Perth and Sydney was amazing.  It's kind of no change from here.   
It's really phenomenal, the support that all the Aussies do get.  I know the boys are out there, the outside courts as well, the stands are packed.  It's really special to play at home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT