AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2018
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. OSAKA/A. Barty
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Was it any different playing as a favorite than the underdog?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No, I mean, through rankings I've probably been the favorite all week.  In my eyes, it certainly was a very even match.  Naomi played a great match.  Especially in times when I was able to have my nose in front, she served great and came up with the goods.  Sometimes you just have to tip your hat to your opponent.
Q. Was it sort of the case of a few very similar sort of style players, aggressive hitters, had a cumulative effect?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No.  I think, I mean, I'm obviously very happy with my first couple matches.  Even tonight, I don't think I did a hell of a lot wrong.  I think if Naomi plays like that, she beats a lot of players.
I wasn't able to get into too many of her service games.  I had a sniff at a couple games, 15-30s, 30-All points.  But she served great and played the big points well tonight.
Q. Was the court change a distraction at all?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No.  We were sort of aware of what was going on.  It's obviously hard to say and obviously when a match goes that long to begin with.  For me, I played on Margaret Court in years before.  Knew the court.  So, no, that had nothing to do with it.
Q. Do you think you would have had any extra boost from having the bigger crowd behind you on Rod Laver?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No.  I had phenomenal support in Margaret Court Arena, as well.  It's probably a little bit of a late change for everyone to know, but it was still a very full crowd.  I enjoyed playing out there.  I would have loved to have come off as a winner, but it wasn't meant to be tonight.
Q. Do you think the way Naomi played today, it's something you didn't expect, or she played exactly what you were kind of expecting?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think she just played a very good match.  Obviously I knew what to expect.  I knew the type of game she is.
She served unbelievably well today, was able to get control of the points pretty early.  I think that was something that I had to try and sort of stop her doing but wasn't able to do so tonight.
Q. Considering the amount of seeds that have fallen, do you see this as a missed opportunity?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yes and no.  Missed opportunity because I felt like I put myself in a good position.  I haven't looked at anyone else.  To be honest, I'm not really concerned about what anyone else is doing.
But, no, I think for me, I feel I'm pretty shattered and it's a missed opportunity only because we've done well to get here and would have loved to have gone further.
Q. What's your assessment of the summer as a whole?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Ups and downs, I think.  I think as any professional athlete, you can be on a massive high, and it can all come crashing down in one day.  Today, that was my day.  Wasn't a good day at the office for me.  But we've still had a pretty unbelievable summer.
Q. Maybe it's too early to talk about the goals, but do you have any specific goals in this season?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think for me it's really about maintaining my spot in the top 20, solidifying my spot, continuing to play good tennis, do the right things on and off the court.  Would love to make the second week of a slam.  We're close.  We'll keep chipping away.
Q. Different set of circumstances from last year.  What have you learnt, taken away from this year's experience?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I feel like these last few matches, even through Sydney, we've learnt a few tough lessons, got through a couple hurdles on a personal note.  I feel like it's been a successful summer.
I would have loved to have gone deeper and obviously still be in the tournament come the second week, but wasn't meant to be.
I think we can certainly be proud of what we've achieved in these last few weeks and look to move forward for the rest of the year.
Q. What are your plans the next couple of months?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I think the next couple months are busy.  We have Fed Cup before moving through the Middle East, through Indian Wells, Miami, then Fed Cup again.  That's sort of a pretty standard schedule for most players.
Q. We've seen what the pressure can do to players.  Now that the tournament is over, coming in as Australia's highest ranked female player, can you sit back and say it didn't bother you at all?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: It didn't bother me at all.  I think if anything, it made my most enjoyable summer ever.
Q. Many Australian players struggle playing on the home court.  Do you feel you get more support from your home crowd?  Do you get more energy?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think everyone is different.  I think sometimes in Australia, the last few years Australians have been dealt tough draws.  I know speaking to all the players on a personal level, everyone loves playing here.  We love playing at home.  There's absolutely nothing better playing in your home country with the support you do get.
I feel extremely fortunate to have the support that I get, win, lose or draw.  I know the crowd are backing me in and genuinely just trying to get me through to win the match.
Q. Do you still follow cricket?  Do you have any other sport you're interested in?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Of course, I still follow cricket.  I love it.  But I follow many sports.  I'm a massive sport junky.
No, I love it all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT