UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2017
Josh Stewart
Nate Gaines
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Southern Miss - 31, UTSA - 29   
 Q.  Josh, what happened on the two-point conversion try?  
JOSH STEWART: I don't really know.  I've got to get in and watch the film.  But it was a bang-bang play.  So, I mean, I don't know.  Really don't know what happened.   
 Q.  Josh, did you get a finger on it?  When it went over you, did you get a hand on it?  
JOSH STEWART: No.  But I thought it was a good ball by Dalton.  No, it was definitely nothing on his part.   
 Q.  Well, it happened on both lines of scrimmage.  Let me ask you, Nate, since you're on defense.  Coach said you guys just got whipped on both sides of the line of scrimmage.  I know you don't play on the line, but what happened out there?  Did they kind of out-physical you, for lack of a better word?  What was it?  He said like you all were a little flat, he thought.  Coach said that.  
NATE GAINES: Just coming out, yeah.  We came out flat.  They threw a lot of different things that we had seen prior to this game, and it really just starts with our adjustments.  We sat down, went to the sideline, made our corrections.   
But, I mean, at the end of the day, they were the more physical team not just on the line.  I mean, through the line, through the whole secondary, we just needed to step up our game.   
 Q.  Nate, what's the mood in the locker room?  Obviously, it was a close loss.  You guys tried to rally.  What did Coach tell you?  What was just kind of the overall mood?  
NATE GAINES: Well, it just was a mood of, you know how it is when we lose a game, everyone is just kind of down.  But we're a very resilient football team so we're not going to let this loss prohibit us to what we're trying to still accomplish.  We've still got more games ahead of us so we're going to go in, we're going to watch this tomorrow.  And then after that, we're going to put it in the past and we're going to prepare for a very good football team.   
 Q.  Josh, I'm going to ask you about another play.  On the interception, you're in zone.  Looked like you stumbled.  Kind of inadvertently trip, stumble on the turf?  
JOSH STEWART: I stumbled, but that had nothing to do with it.  I don't really know what happened.  Like I said, we've got to go in and watch the film on those plays to actually see what went down.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT