PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2011
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Disappointed? Could have been a lot better?
 SIMON DYSON: I played really good. That's as good as I've played all week, really well, and I got through an unbelievable start. And then it all started on 6. Hit it in the right bunker, just not that hard a shot but the lie I had was just -- I mean, I was aiming 30 yards right of the pin and it came out straight at the pin. It went in the water. Nearly made a five, parred that, and then I pulled it in the water on 8. Made a good par today out of the bunker. 
 Made a good par at 9 but didn't really hit a good shot there. That was my worst hole there and then played great after that. 
 Got a good up-and-down at 10 off a flyer from the fairway. And then birdied 11, played a good 3-wood and 9-iron, and then birdied 12. Knocked it on in two. 
 Hit a lovely shot into 13, literally two yards right of where it's pitching, it's ten foot away, gets a left-hand bounce, spins into semi-plugged on a downslope and knifed it to the other side of the green and had no shot, walked off with bogey.
 Good shot into the next. 3-putt that. Great shot into 15, hit as good a putt as I could, and that missed and then hit the longest 5-iron into 16 I think I've ever hit, 215 yards uphill. And it went over the back and it's just dead. Made a good five in the end. 
 And then my tee shot on 18, slipped, pulled it left, hit the tree, came down, and managed to make a good four. 

 Q. Frustrating? 
 SIMON DYSON: It is frustrating because it just didn't give me anything out there. I got off to a good start. And then got it back to 2-under, and did exactly the same. It's that type of golf course, isn't it. 

 Q. How's the back? 
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, it was good today. I had pleasant of time to rest it so I knew I would be fine and went for a run this morning and it was okay. 
 So hopefully it will be all right tomorrow.

 Q. Thoughts for tomorrow? Too far back?
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, it's too far back now. It's not that type of course where you can go and shoot 8- or 9-under, and the leaders -- we'll see. Top-10 would be a good finish I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT