THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2011
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did that 18 sting a little bit?
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, a little bit. I thought I'd hit a good drive and the wind just took it sideways and it just caught the bunker, which was a shame really. But at the end of it I was quite pleased to get away with a bogey. It was a good two-putt from that bottom edge. Yeah, I was pleased, really. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, I mean, it's not hard at all. It's not tough at all to keep a bogey off your card. Thomas had a couple, but he managed to make a nice few birdies, as well. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SIMON DYSON: I don't know, really. It's just nice to be in it. Yeah, I suppose like we go on the first tee and my caddie said, just enjoy it. Just pleased to be here because we weren't meant to be in it. And I felt really relaxed on the first tee this morning, probably more so than I've done the last few weeks, which was nice. And it seemed to show in my game. 
 I was going to go down to Spain and just have a few days down there with my wife. So we're just going to go next week instead, so it's not a big deal. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, it's a shame, because my brother and his girlfriend are down there at the minute, as well, so we were going to meet up with them, which is a shame. I've been suffering with my L4 in my lower right back. It's not too bad, but occasionally I get in a position and it just hurts and I just come apart with a shot and block it right. I had a couple today but managed to not find anything too severe, managed to get it back on track. 

 Q. Is there anything you can do during the evening to stretch it?
 SIMON DYSON: I get loads of physio, just loads of physio and just got a hot water bottle on my right glute there. It's really tight, and it seems to loosen it up nicely.

 Q. You played with Thomas who had a fantastic round. 
 SIMON DYSON: He played lovely, yeah. He had total control, total control all day. Even his bogey on the front nine, he bogeyed 9, he hit a beautiful drive, beautiful shot in, good first putt up to two, two-and-a-half feet and missed it, which was quite a bit of a shock, really. 
 And then 18, he played it how he wanted to, good drive, played it down the left and just over-hit his chip unfortunately.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SIMON DYSON: I mean, we talked, yeah. He's a good lad. We get on really well. He's a good guy, Thomas. He's been there and done it. I've got a lot of respect for the guy. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SIMON DYSON: I just didn't mention it. It's not something you really want to bring up, is it? I'd never, ever say that to Thomas. I'd never say it to one of my best mates.

 Q. What was working best for you today? 
 SIMON DYSON: I putted really good. My pace of putts was really good today, which when you've got your pace, you see the lines a lot better. 
 Yeah, like I say, I had a couple of long putts that you could quite easily three-putt, and I was knocking them up to a foot. It was nice. 

 Q. Same game plan for tomorrow?
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, just the same, no expectations, just go out and enjoy it, as well. It's always nice to play in Opens. It's the best tournament in the world by a mile, I think. I played the Masters last year. I mean, don't get me wrong, the Masters is something special, but it's nothing like an Open. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT