THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lovely round today but even better news than the eagle at the 16th is the news that you are in The Open Championship. When did you just find out?  
 SIMON DYSON: Literally just as I walked in, the boys were telling me that David Toms had withdrawn, so I'm the lucky one to get his spot, so I'm really pleased.  
  
  Q. And how much was getting in there a motivation this week?   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, I mean, I've been a little unlucky after my result at Wentworth. Raphaël Jacquelin passed me on that little mini-Order of Merit and another one which I was leading and literally Larrazábal had to win the tournament, and Garcia had to finish in the top three to knock me out and that's exactly what happened, and that knocked me out.  
 I knew if I could play well this week -- you know, just see what happened. But I've been struggling with fitness a little bit over the last couple of weeks, but that's helped the back out a little bit now.  
  
  Q. You missed the last couple of cuts clearly, but knowing you were coming back to links golf and with your prowess in the last couple of years in the Dunhill Links Championship, a fifth and a victory, as well, how confident were you coming here to Castle Stuart in the first place?   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, it's a lot like Kingsbarns, and Kingsbarns is one of my favourite golf courses that we play. And I don't know what it is, but links golf seems to suit me. I'm more of a get it around -- not just bomb it and find it. I like to work my shots and links golf seems to suit me. I've won four times in Europe and three of them have been on links courses. So yeah it was nice to get back on the links and nice to play good again.  
  
  Q. What do you think of this place?  
 SIMON DYSON: Oh, it's beautiful, absolutely beautiful. I think they have done a fantastic job considering it's only been open a year. I think it looks very mature and I think if they have it here, it will be a fantastic place to have it for the next few years I'm sure.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT