BMW MASTERS PRESENTED BY SRE GROUP
October 25, 2013
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SIMON DYSON:   Really pleased.   It's a tough course and I think anything under par is pretty good around there. 
But a shame to double the last like I did.   I didn't hit a bad drive really and it kicked right into the rough.   Wasn't a great line.   Maybe just tried to do a bit too much with it instead of just shifting it forward and it snagged way left on.
Me.   My bunker shot, I had about a 30‑yard bunker shot but was semi‑plugged and caught the bank and kind of spun into a semi‑plugged lie and left it in the bunker.   Thought I hit a good bunker shot for my fourth shot and didn't get any spin and release d about 12‑foot past and missed it coming back. 
Easy to make a six.   You do all that hard work and drop two shots at the last.   Apart from that, I was really pleased.   Drove it good, iron play was good.   And when I needed my short game, it was there.   Looking forward to the weekend, all to play for. 
I was first out yesterday, so we had a good nine or ten holes where the wind wasn't quite as strong, but it was strong today.   It was definitely maybe a two‑club wind.   There's a lot of out there that are cross‑winds, as well.   But the Tour have been great.   They have put a few tees up on certain holes, and they have certainly made it playable.   If we were off the backs, I don't think anyone would be under par if we were off the backs.   So they have been good this week. 

Q.   I know it's history now but when you're finished, you said, well, 68 might be the best score of the day and suddenly shoots a 65 and everybody is trailing?
SIMON DYSON:   Unbelievable.   That's a fantastic score.   Does help when you have 19 putts which he did.   I think I'd have shot 64 if I'd had 19 putts. 
No, it's still a really good score, and I honestly thought 4‑under would be the best score.   Apart from him, it was. 

Q.   And 4‑under is a really good score at the halfway stage and you're in a fine position. 
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, felt really good today.   Yesterday I managed to get a 2‑under out of my game.   Yet today, I almost feel disappointed with a 2‑under with my game.   It felt really good.
So hopefully I can feel like that at the weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT