UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 19, 2010
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Second Round 65. 11-Under Total. 129  
   
  Q. Pretty good day?  
 SIMON DYSON: Great back nine. Played a great back nine. Could have shot 28. Missed a couple on 16 and 17, missed a couple of 8-footers but nice to finish with a birdie at the last.   
 Yeah, played really nice on the back nine. I had a couple of bits go off on me and I putted lovely. I putted lovely on the back nine. Front nine was just I got off to a bit of a shaky start, bogeyed the first, birdied the second which got me back in and lipped out on 3 and 4, hit a terrible shot on 25 and made bogey there.   
 Hit a lovely 7-iron out of the bunker on 6 which kind of calmed me down a little bit, because that was a big shot and then I hit a good drive at the next and made a good up-and-down at the 8th and played 9 lovely and parred that. Once I got through 9 1-over I thought, well, there's plenty of chances on the back nine and I just went mad, five in the next six holes.  
  
  Q. Is that a conscious decision, to go mad?   
 SIMON DYSON: Well, you've got the chances, haven't you. I played the back nine pretty good yesterday so I knew there was plenty of chances if I drove the ball well and I did and I put it in good position and I managed to convert my chances today.   
 6-under on the back nine around any course is good and I'm pleased with that. You know, I'd rather shoot 1-over than 6-under rather than 6-under, 1-over. At least it gives me a bit of momentum for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Which is exactly -- you're in great position going into the weekend.   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, four -- should be good. Very exciting. Top-10 players, too. Rory is leading. I'm sure Poults will probably join him so they will be last group out tomorrow. Or Kang might be last group if Poults finishes 12. I'll be playing with Poults tomorrow. So, yeah, exciting stuff.   
  
  Q. Good when you're playing with those guys. That's what you want.   
 SIMON DYSON: Absolutely. As soon as I saw I was paired with JD this week, I was like, excellent, that's exactly what I want is to play with somebody like that. You always try that little bit harder. It's like every time I seem to play with Monty or Els, I always seem to play really good, and it's good.   
 It does spur you on which is exactly what you need, and you couldn't ask for a nicer bloke to play with than him. Best bloke I've ever played with I think. He's just very courteous, you have a laugh with him. He's great to watch, great to watch. I love it. Could watch that all day. You can see why the crowds -- why he draws the crowds. He's a lovely bloke, as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT