UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 18, 2010
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  First Round 64 -6  
  
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Thanks for coming in. Simon, well played, hole-in-one and a 64, that must have been a nice round to start your UBS Hong Kong Open campaign.  
 SIMON DYSON: Very much so. I got off to a good start, parred ten and missed the green on 11. I was only about six yards from the pin and managed to hole it, managed to chip-in.   
 So that was a nice start and then it got even better at the next. Perfect yardage, no wind, perfect wedge, straight down the flag, pitched it to about a foot short and just rolled out and dropped in the hole. So couldn't have asked for a better start.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Conditions seemed to be nice for a nice, low round today, wasn't it?   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, perfect. Couldn't get it any better. There was a slight breeze which was nice. The greens are rolling as good as I've ever seen them roll here. I've been coming here a few years now. Yeah, the course is excellent, and the weather is even better.   
  
  Q. What is it about golf in this part of the world that you enjoy? You were a member of the Tour here at one stage and you obviously play very well here?  
 SIMON DYSON: I honestly don't know. I just come out here, you know, having done what I did in the year 2000 to kind of -- every time I came back out after that, everyone was -- it was the people who kind of used to say, oh, Dys, is fancied here; it gave me that mentality that I was, every time I came out here, and a lot of my good results have been out in Asia, a few seconds and thirds, and I won Indonesia again on The European Tour, joint-sanctioned one.   
 Just a lovely part of the world to come and play.   
  
  Q. How many holes in one have you had on Tour?   
 SIMON DYSON: On Tour, that is -- I have three on Tour now.   
  
  Q. In your life?   
 SIMON DYSON: 16 I've had in total. Yeah, I had 13 as an amateur and it was a good six years as a professional before I had one. And then that was at Valderrama, and then I had won in Malaysia, was it two years ago Malaysia? And then obviously this one.   
  
  Q. What was the yardage?  
 SIMON DYSON: 136 yards.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Are you going to keep the UBS stocks?   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, I'll keep them. Might be for an hour. Might be for a year, I don't know, but I'll keep them at some point, nice.   
  
  Q. Did you check around and see if there's a car here?   
 SIMON DYSON: Actually the first thing I looked at were the boards, yeah. After all of the high-fives had gone, I looked around, and saw there was something. I didn't -- I couldn't make out what it was really. But I knew there was something, but I just didn't know.   
  
  Q. So before you hit the shot, you weren't sure --  
 SIMON DYSON: Oh, before I hit the shot, I never looked and hit the shot and then had a look. I was hoping to see a 535 (laughter) but unfortunately that was on the 8th.   
  
  Q. Maybe tomorrow?  
 SIMON DYSON: Maybe.   
  
  Q. Is that added to your stock portfolio?   
 SIMON DYSON: They are the first stocks I've ever had, yeah, and the only ones. I'm not -- it's just something that's never really taken my fancy. But yes, it's still nice.   
  
  Q. One of your amateur partners in the Pro-Am mentioned that the journalists that when you played yesterday, your irons were not as sharp as today; is that something you waited until the real tournament starts?  
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, he's absolutely right. I didn't play that great last week. And I worked hard on Tuesday. I put in a good five or six hours on Tuesday, and woke up yesterday morning and could hardly move. I was stiff as a board. As soon as I finished the Pro-Am, I went and had an hour's massage in the physio unit. Managed to loosen me up and improved me a little bit. Who was it who mentioned it.  
  
  Q. The lady.   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah. (Laughter).  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT