ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2010
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your defence, that's a good knock, isn't it?   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, I played really good, really good it. Got off to a great start again, birdied the first, slipped up a bit on the third, bogeyed that, and then played absolutely flawless golf after that. Hit it exactly where I wanted to and made the putts. You know, 7-under on 17th tee around that course, any day, is good, let alone today.  
 A good putt at 17, just managed to sneak by the right side u thought it was going to turn and thought I hit a really good putt at the last and it just drifted a bit. It's amazing whenever you hit it outside that left lip on that putt, it stays there, so often, and I went just inside the hole and it went right, but never mind. If someone had said to me, do you want 66, I would have absolutely taken the round.  
 I said to my caddie, even on the 9th tee, I said, if we can shoot 3- or 4-under, I have half a chance. But the boys, there's a lot of quality on the leaderboard there. Kaymer, I think he just got to 15. If it had been, you know, different story, then maybe, but he's world No. 5 for a reason, so fair play.  
  
  Q. Among and two fellow Yorkshiremen, Danny Willett and John Parry.   
 SIMON DYSON: John, I congratulated him at Kingsbarns for his win at the Vivendi. Danny, I don't know well, he's a good lad, fantastic player. Willett's gone to 13, so he's going very well, very well.  
  
  Q. On to Portugal for you?   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, Tuesday morning, fly down there and keep the form up.   
  
  Q. You tend to be a player that once you're in form, you keep it going and you like playing week-after-week, don't you?   
 SIMON DYSON: I do, I do. I don't mind it at all. I've got obviously Portugal and I've got Valderrama and we've got Singapore, Hong Kong, Dubai, and that finishes it then. We'll see.  
  
  Q. As a preview for Portugal, what can you tell us about Villamoura and the track there?  
 SIMON DYSON: The complex is beautiful. I stayed at the Tivoli there last year and it's one of the best hotels I've stayed in in Europe. The weather is as good as anywhere in Europe, and yeah, the course is good. It's a long course, but it favours good drivers, as well, which I've done well this week. So hopefully if I can keep doing that, keep holing the putts, week have another good week.  
  
  Q. Always seems to be in good condition, they look after that course very nicely?  
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, they do. They know how to keep golf courses down there in Portugal, and it's always a nice place to go and play.  
  
  Q. After all of the waterproofs and the warm weather clothing, it would be nice to have some sun on your back?  
 SIMON DYSON: Oh, won't it just. Won't it just. It was really cold today, really cold.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT