PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah well, got off to a good start. Birdieing 11, 12, and 13. Hit some really nice shots in there.  
 11, you know, I hit a good sand iron in there. Spun it back to about 12 feet. Managed to hole that.   
 12, I hit a wedge in to about eight or nine feet, managed to roll that one in.   
 13, I hit a lovely 9-iron to about five feet, rolled that one in as well.   
 Then gave myself some good chances after that, really.   
 14, knocked it to about 12 feet, unfortunately just missed.   
 15, left it in the just a just short.   
 16, knocked it on in two and 2-putted for birdie.   
 Hit 4-iron into 17, 2-putted that for par.   
 And then missed the fairway, I missed the first fairway of the day on 18 and couldn't get up. But just missed my par putt there. So it was a 3-under round on that back nine is pretty good on any day.   
 Then I carried it on, gave myself a good chance at 1 from about 15 feet, just missed that.   
 Lipped out for birdie at 2 from about 12 feet.   
 Birdied 3. Hit 8-iron to about 25 feet, managed to roll that one in.   
 Hit a lovely 2-iron into 4 to about 10 feet. Just missed that.   
 Parred 5.   
 Hit a good sand iron into 6 to about six feet. Knocked that in.   
 5-iron on 7, 2-putt.   
 Driver, 2-iron into 8. Just missed the green right, but got up-and-down.   
 And then driver, 6-iron to nine. Just managed to 3-putt that. But all in all, quite pleased.   
  
  Q. What were you doing today and in the tournament in general that maybe you weren't doing the last few weeks as far as your game goes?  
 SIMON DYSON: I don't know. I've just been working on the few things on the range and it just seemed to click on Tuesday, Wednesday.   
 I feel like the last few weeks I've felt like I've not had much power, so I've kind of been slashing at the ball a little bit, whereas this drill that I've been doing seems to have given me a -- seems I can hit it a little bit further so you're not going after it and I'm just swinging within myself all of a sudden, instead of slashing at that time a bit and all of a sudden you've got so much more control when you do that.   
  
  Q. Were there any particular holes that you especially were pleased with in terms of just maybe a save here or just a shot you made?  
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, probably 15's a good hole. You've got to hit the fairway there and I hit a lovely drive down there. But 4 is probably the one. Wind into us off the right, hit a lovely drive straight down the middle and then had 242 pin and just nailed a 2-iron to about 10 feet.   
 Having just made birdie on the third hole there, so you kind of want to keep the momentum going. And I managed to do that, which was good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT