THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 5, 2010
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Seven birdies yesterday and a 1-under par; was today all about eliminating the mistakes?   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, I mean, to be fair, even the bogeys yesterday, I was still hitting pretty good shots, and just doesn't have much control with my distance. I was going long and short with a few. But the shots were still pretty good and striking them well down the pins. But today, yeah, I just don't seem to have that little bit more control, distance-wise, over the ball. And besides the birdie on 12, you know, if the wind had stayed up, that would have probably hit the middle of the green and then it would have been a blemish-free card which would have been nice. But I'm striking it good and looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Two wins for you last year, eight Top-10s and a quiet season so far this year; what's been the issue?   
 SIMON DYSON: Yeah, very quiet. I think I've just not been playing. You know, breaking into the Top-50 and getting in those tournaments in America, it's been a bit really stop/start. This has been probably the biggest run I've had so far, and I'm just starting to get into it, which is nice. But you know me, I just love to play, and for the first four months, I wasn't doing that.   
  
  Q. Ryder Cup, you got off to a fabulous start obviously last year and got yourself into great position, but having accrued that many points so far this year; how important could tomorrow be for you?   
 SIMON DYSON: It could be massive. Obviously whoever wins this tournament is going to be lucking out with it being played here.   
 So, you know, just got to try and not think about it. I haven't thought about it really, so I'll go into tomorrow with that same attitude and just play how I have been for the last three weeks. I've been playing like that for three weeks now, so hopefully I can have just one more day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT