ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2009
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Double-bogey at 15 and like all really good players, you bounced back with two birdies, how do you do that?
 SIMON DYSON: I remember playing with Ernie Els quite a few years ago in Melbourne, and he did it better than anybody I had ever seen doing it. And you know, ever since that, I've kind of learned from him and been able to do it myself. It's a great thing to have.
 I played really nice. Just got off to a good start. Birdied 3 and then made a nice eagle on 6. Lipped out with a couple of putts up to then, and then should have birdied 9. I hit two real good shots in there.
 Then birdied 12 and then the double came out of nowhere. I thought I hit a decent shot but on that tee, you can't feel the wind from around the trees, and it just got it a lot more than I thought it would. It was still pretty close to making it but just not close enough. So yeah, unfortunately made double there. But nice to finish with a couple of birdies in the last three. 

 Q. Feel a bit strange being out there with an amateur in the middle of an enormous tournament like this?
 SIMON DYSON: Not really because we are getting on fantastically well. We are lucky to have such a good fourball. All four guys are great guys, so I'm sure that's helped me and Ollie and I'm sure it's helped Kelly, as well. Yeah, he's playing fantastic. I think we shot 9-under today as a team, because he's only getting three shots. So to be in the position we are in, it's going to be fantastic.

 Q. Your great mate, Nick Dougherty, won this tournament two years ago and you were very jealous; how special would it be to win tomorrow?
 SIMON DYSON: It would be very special. This is one of, if not, the biggest tournament on our calendar. So it will be an interesting day. 

 Q. Can you remember what age you were when you were with Ernie Els? 
 SIMON DYSON: The day I played with him was the day I lost out in the playoff by a shot. So it would have been about -- Guy has been with me since '06 so '04 or '05. 

 Q. You say you learnt from him, but how did you employ it?
 SIMON DYSON: Whenever I was making bogeys before that, I was getting really annoyed with myself, whereas now you've got to try to push it to one side. After the double I'm still thinking, it's only like being 12-under and par, and that's what I tried to get into my head and obviously helped a bit. 
 6, I drove the green, the line was left on the side of that and a little bit of draw and you're just hoping for a good bounce, and you can see it and I got it a little bit left. As soon as I bounced left, I knew it was down at the bottom and you're just waiting for the crowd to clap. And just as Ollie is about to hit his shot, they all started clapping. So, yeah, it's good. 

 Q. A lot of attention on Rory this week. 
 SIMON DYSON: Loads, but I don't mind that, though. 

 Q. You could be head-to-head with him. 
 SIMON DYSON: I'm sure we will, we will be last group out, but he's a good friend of mine. I've known him for a few years now and he's a good lad. It will be nice to play with someone that I like and respect. 

 Q. How highly do you rate him?
 SIMON DYSON: He's exceptional. They don't come along very often but he's definitely one of them. 

 Q. Sky's the limit for him?
 SIMON DYSON: Absolutely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT