THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2012
Simon Dyson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You must be pretty pleased with that?  
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, very pleased with it.   I played nice today.   I didn't drive it very good yesterday, but I scored really well.   I scrambled very well yesterday.   I managed to get the ball in the positions I wanted to today.   If you're hitting off the fairway to these pins, there's a few you can attack, and I managed to do that.   So I'm pleased.   Yeah, I managed to hole a few putts, as well.  
   
 Q.   You were steady early on and had a bogey and around the turn got quite a few birdies?  
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, it was really tough to start with.   We played all the front nine into the wind.   And then as we turned got on about 11 or 12, it turned back into us again.   So we played pretty much three‑quarters of the round into the wind today.   
Started off nice, didn't really do much wrong on 3 for the bogey.   I was just giving myself chances.  
And then finally knocked it close on 7.   Birdied that and then put a good putt on it.   And 9, having just missed a shot on 8.   I was giving myself the chances, and a few of them dropped.  
   
 Q.   Obviously all the rain overnight, there's quite a lot of water in the bunkers?   
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, a lot of water.   So you've really got to try and work your way around them.   I know there's a lot and I know they're always going to grab you at some point.   But it seems to be the greenside bunkers that has all the water, and the fairway bunkers don't seem to be as bad.   So luckily I was hitting my irons pretty straight.  
   
 Q.   And here for the weekend and in a good position?  
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, yeah, it's nice, always nice to play the weekend at the Open, best tournament in the world.   So it's really nice to be here.  
   
 Q.   Nice week last year, as well.   
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, I did all right last year.   I finished top 10, which was nice.   So I don't know where I am at the minute, top 20, probably.   But I might finish a bit better by the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   Is it a course you can attack over the weekend?  
SIMON DYSON:   I think it's one you've got to stay patient again.   I think you've just got to really position it off the tee.   If you can get it in position off the tee, then you can kind of attack a few.   But if you start attacking off the tee you could shoot a lot.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, there was some nasty ones.   There was‑‑ Snedeker is up a few, isn't he?   3 was a tough one, because obviously we played it into the wind.   I mean, I hit 3‑wood, 8‑iron yesterday and hit driver, 3‑iron today, so big difference.   But there's some accessible ones, as well.   So it's pretty fair.   
   
 Q.   Did you draw on anything from last year?  
SIMON DYSON:   Not really.   It's a different tournament.   Different year, isn't it?   So just got to try and finish as high as I can.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, I'm starting to play nice.   Yesterday I didn't play particularly well.   Like I say, I scrambled really well, and then just worked on a few things this morning and seemed to get quite a nice feeling from it and played‑‑ like I said, I played a lot better today, a lot better.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SIMON DYSON:   No, I didn't notice.   No, not really.   It was pretty quiet early, but I just thought that was because of the time.   And then it got really nice towards the end.   It got good.   
   
 Q.   The crowds?  
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, fantastic.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, I mean, if you're hitting it off the tee and getting in positions on certain holes you can attack a few, but like I said, there's a few pins that are just‑‑ hit the middle of the green, if you happen to hole it.   There's a lot on high ground.   There seems to be a lot on like the mounds on the greens.   So, yeah, it's a good test.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SIMON DYSON:   What did I birdie?   7.   I knocked it down to about three foot from there.  
9, I hit 9‑iron on to about 15 feet, managed to roll that in.   
11, I was quite fortunate, I didn't hit a very good drive.   Tried to get it out, left it in the rough and then just tried to bump‑and‑run a 9‑iron, and got it to about 30 feet and managed to sneak one in there.  
And then 17 I was a chip‑in.   I thought I'd hit a good shot in, actually, 7‑iron, just came up short, and there was a pitch mark.   I was just about this off the green, but there was a pitch mark right in line with me so I had to chip in.   And glad I did.   Chipped it in.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SIMON DYSON:   I had a really good chance.   Probably the best shot I hit today into 18.   And just come short of the downslope.   And it was a big swing.   I had about a foot of swing on it at about eight foot.   So just didn't quite hit the putt and just missed it left.   But still good day.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, 9‑under, that's impressive.   What was he today, then, 5?   That's good.   I mean there's still a lot of clubs to go out yet, Scottie has still got to go out, Tiger, all them boys have still got to go out.   It's catchable.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of the morning conditions?   
SIMON DYSON:   Yeah, I mean the morning it was still pretty tough.   The front nine played into the wind on all of them.   8, for example I hit 3‑iron, wedge there yesterday.   And I hit driver, 9‑iron to it today.   So like I said, there's a big difference there.   But it wasn't too bad.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SIMON DYSON:   I wouldn't know, really, all depends‑‑ it's all on the weather, like always.   If it blows tomorrow and you manage to shoot 1‑under then you could move up.   I see Lordy is caddying for Luke.   I'm guessing John is adapting, is he?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT