NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Vincenzo Joseph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








165 Pounds
THE MODERATOR: Talk a little bit about your match tonight and some of the feelings that were going into it at the end there.
VINCENZO JOSEPH: It was a close match.  We both wrestled hard from the beginning to the end.  I've got to tip my hat, he came out wrestling really well and had to be ready for a lot of stuff that he was bringing.
Q. There's been obviously a lot of talk about the Pennsylvania kids, the number, the fact that you even just wrestled against one of your club mates, right?
VINCENZO JOSEPH: Right.
Q. Is there a double-edged sword being from here and competing here; that everybody maybe expects too much from you?
VINCENZO JOSEPH: I wouldn't say that.  You know, I see nothing wrong with people expecting a lot from us, especially whenever I was younger in high school our group of guys that we wrestled with, that includes Josh that I just wrestled, we were a tough group.  I don't really think people expecting anything from us has an effect on how we do.
Q. In the finals tomorrow, which you're kind of used to being in the finals now, talk about your opponent, Mekhi Lewis, whether you've had some background with him.  Have you watched him or do you know much about him?  He's young and he's been a world champion at the junior level, and he's going to come out and he thinks he's going to be able to compete with you.
VINCENZO JOSEPH: I don't see why he wouldn't think that.  He's a good wrestler.  He proved it all year, previous years, and I never really watched him wrestle too much, but it's going to be a good match.  He wrestles hard.  I'll wrestle hard.  It's going to be exciting.
Q. Talk about Josh Shields.  You had beat him up earlier in the year, but obviously you probably expected a very tough match from him.  What was the difference?
VINCENZO JOSEPH: I got that first quick takedown at the beginning, and I was looking for other opportunities to score throughout the match, but he just kept coming.  He's really good from space, so I didn't really want to overextend myself.  I figured it would be a lot closer the first time around.  I kind of caught him on his back there, kind of set the tone.  But he's going to wrestle tough all seven minutes, and that's what I'd be ready for.
Q. This is the third straight year that you did not win the Big Ten but that you come in here, having won national championships.  Does winning the nationals after not winning the conference just make you forget about the Big Tens at all?
VINCENZO JOSEPH: Not really.  You never forget.  After Big Tens I was happy my team won and I was happy for my teammates wrestling well, but to put it kind of blunt, losing sucks.  No one likes to lose, especially -- I don't think I wrestled my best in that match, and I wrestled Alex Marinelli, who's really good.  He's a phenomenal wrestler, and he came out wrestling awesome, and I didn't do that so much, and he kind of beat me up.  I was pretty down for a few days, and thankfully I have awesome teammates and coaches that really helped me out a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT