NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
May 29, 2012
Jonathan Quick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jonathan Quick. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JONATHAN QUICK:   No.   I wouldn't say I was stealing games.   I think it was a team effort.   We're a great defensive club.   We've done that well for years.   So I wouldn't look at it as stealing games. 
My job's the same as it was in October.   Got to stop the puck.   That's it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JONATHAN QUICK:   Nope.   My job hasn't changed.   I was always asked if there was more pressure.   There wasn't.   Just go do my job. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JONATHAN QUICK:   Well, I don't, to be honest, really enjoy it.   When I think of the finals, I don't think of being here in front of you guys.   I think of going and playing a hockey game at the highest level.   That's all I think about. 

Q.   Why do you think you have been so good on the road? 
JONATHAN QUICK:   It's something I said earlier.   Whoever is going to work harder is going to win.   I think that's what we did on the road so far these playoffs, we out‑work teams. 
That's what we have to continue to do. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JONATHAN QUICK:   Yeah, I was.   I was rooting again Marty then (smiling).   You know, obviously it's pretty cool playing against him.   But, like I said earlier, it's about the teams.   It's the Kings versus the Devils.   It's not an individual sport, obviously. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JONATHAN QUICK:   You carry the weight for your teammates, that's really the weight you really carry.   That's who you're playing for.   So it would be nice to go back to Hamden with something to show everybody. 
But you play for your teammates. 

Q.   What most impresses you about the Devils? 
JONATHAN QUICK:   There's a lot.   They're a very impressive team.   I would say you look at the teams they beat to get here, they didn't have an easy road and they played well. 
Their power play at times has been very potent.   Their top two lines have been very potent.   They scored some timely goals.   Solid defense.   Obviously Marty is one of the best goalies ever to play. 
They're a very strong team and they'll be a big challenge for us. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JONATHAN QUICK:   There will be a couple, yeah.   I had to cut off some people.   Tickets are expensive. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JONATHAN QUICK:   I spend summers in Connecticut, yeah. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JONATHAN QUICK:   No.   I didn't know I was going to go there until I was older.   But, no. 

Q.   How exciting is it to be here in the Stanley Cup finals?
JONATHAN QUICK:   Looking forward to playing tomorrow night.   That's the excitement.   When you step out on that ice and you play at the highest level, it's the most important games of your career, your season. 
It's going to be a lot of fun.   There's going to be a lot of energy in the building.   Just play your game. 

Q.   (Question regarding the eight days off.) 
JONATHAN QUICK:   No, this time of year you need to rest.   Everybody needs to rest.   Played 82 games, three rounds right now.   Like you're saying for Marty, he played two rounds already. 
The rest is welcomed at this time of the year.   You get practice.   Guys are pushing you.   You're competing in practice.   If you have proper practice habits, you won't lose your rhythm.   It's a situation where you don't come to work for practice, you will lose your rhythm.   It's just making sure you're working. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT