NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 5, 2012
Jonathan Quick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jonathan Quick.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect the level of anxiety will be for you going into the game tomorrow?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   Just trying to win a hockey game.   Same thing we've been doing for about eight months now.   We're going to continue to try to do that.   
   
 Q.   You've been talking about one shift, one game at the same time.   This game is for the Cup.   
JONATHAN QUICK:   It doesn't count any more than the rest of them did.   It's one game, so...   
We're just going to play our game, work as hard as we can, try to be as prepared as possible, see what happens.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JONATHAN QUICK:   You know, it kind of goes along with the same theme there.   You're just trying to make one save at a time.   They've been doing a pretty good job of getting bodies in front, trying to get tips and screens.   
You got to fight to find the puck.   Sometimes it's easy; sometimes it's hard.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JONATHAN QUICK:   Yeah, you know, the first one was a lucky break.   Those happen.   That second one is a good screen, tip.   Happens sometimes.   Good teams are going to make good plays.   
   
 Q.   Are you and your teammates in that proverbial zone right now?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   We're just playing hockey, trying to work as hard as we can, trying to win a game tomorrow night.   That's our own focus tomorrow night.  
   
 Q.   What is your routine today?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   Same routine as always.   We're going to go about our business the same way, prepare the same way, try to be more prepared than they are.   
   
 Q.   What is that preparation?   Do you have a specific thing you like to eat?   Certain amount of sleep?   What do you do?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   Yeah, you know, rest and nutrition side of it, you got to take care of your body.   We're all pros.   We've all been doing it for a few years now, so we all know what we have to do.  
   
 Q.   With the Cup final, is there more pressure than before?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   You know, Game1, in the afternoon, I'm trying to nap, your mind is kind of racing a little bit, you're thinking too much.   I think that's natural.   
After that, though, it's kind of back to your routine.   Just doing what you can to prepare for a game.   
   
 Q.   When you were young, did you watch the Cup?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   Yeah, you know, you watch a bit of hockey growing up.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JONATHAN QUICK:   We have the opportunity to do that.   Obviously we're not going to start thinking about stuff that hasn't happened yet.   We need four wins to win it.   We only have three.   We need to win another one.   That's what we need for Wednesday night.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you're in their heads now?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   You're going to have to ask them that.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe the playoffs for you specifically, the way you played?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   I feel I've tried to give my team a chance to win every night.   From a goalie standpoint, that's your job.   You try to do your job every night.   Hopefully more times than not, you're able to do that.   
   
 Q.   Did you have hockey posters on your wall growing up?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   I had a few.   
   
 Q.   Who?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   I had Mike Richter, the Cup picture from the Rangers from '94.   
   
 Q.   What did you admire about Richter?   
JONATHAN QUICK:   You know what, I grew up a Rangers fan.   I saw a lot of him.   He's very competitive, very explosive, competes, battles.   
   
 Q.   Did he make you want to be a goalie?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   I started playing goalie before I really started following him.   It wasn't shortly after that I started following him.  
   
 Q.   Where were you when the Rangers won the Cup?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   I was at home at my house.  
   
 Q.   Watching it on TV?   Parents let you stay up.   
JONATHAN QUICK:   Had a few friends over, eating ice pops watching the game.   
   
 Q.   What do you remember about that night?   Anything?   
JONATHAN QUICK:   You know, I just think I was more nervous back then than I am right now for the games.   Obviously you watch all the games throughout the playoffs there.   
I think the save in Game 6 that Richter made on Pavel Bure was more than anything that happened in Game 7.   I was really excited for them to win.   
   
 Q.   Do you think there are kids looking at you in the same way you looked at Richter?  
JONATHAN QUICK:   Yeah, I don't put too much into that.   Just kind of focus on what you're doing.   You don't really put much time into thinking about that.   When you put it that way, it's pretty cool.   
   
 Q.   Would you play street hockey after that, pretend you were Richter?   
JONATHAN QUICK:   Yeah, I suppose.   
   
 Q.   Could you describe the posters, what your room looked like.   
JONATHAN QUICK:   Picture of him on the ice.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT