CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 30, 1999
Pete Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PETE JORDAN:  I started on No. 10.  I bogeyed 12.  Tried to get a little too cute with a 9-iron and missed a green to the right, and had a pretty tough chip.  Missed about a 10-footer for par. Didn't do much.  Had a couple birdie chances. And then 17, I actually drove it in the left bunker. Hit a 7-iron about 20 feet just right of the hole.  A pretty good shot.  I was pleased with it and made a nice putt there.  And 18, I missed about a 10-footer, which I thought might get me over the hump.  But I came back on No. 1 and hit a 6-iron. Wind was really starting to kick up around that time. Hit a 6-iron probably 15 feet behind the hole and made a nice putt there.  No. 2, actually had sort of a bad lie in the fairway, sitting down a little bit, and I hit a pitching wedge three feet.  Hit one of my best shots of the day there and made that one.  And No. 4, I hit driver, 6-iron about 15 feet right of the hole.  Big, swinging right-to-left putt about two feet and broke right in the middle.  It was a good putt.  No. 6, I hit two shots to lay up.  And I hit a sand wedge about 10 feet behind the hole, and that one was another good putt right in the middle of the hole.  And No. 9, I hit 3-wood, 9-iron about six inches; so, I didn't have to line that one up.  That was pretty easy.


Q.  That 9-iron about as good a shot as you hit all day?

PETE JORDAN:  That was pretty good.  I was right in between clubs.  I was going to hit a pitching wedge, but I decided to take a little off the 9-iron instead, and obviously, I made the right choice there.


Q.  Was it firming up at all finally?

PETE JORDAN:  Yeah, the greens were starting to firm up a bit at the end.  The fairways, we finally started getting a little bit of role on the fairways. It was rolling a little bit better today.  My drivers went a lot farther today.  It was a little tougher today, though.  The wind really had some distractions. It was going back and forth there at the beginning and it finally started going the same way the rest of the  day.


Q.  New irons are working pretty good?

PETE JORDAN:  I'm liking them right now.


Q.  Pete, when you went out and saw that 11-under was the number to beat, did you think you had a pretty good chance to get close to it?

PETE JORDAN:  I thought it might get a little lower before I teed off.  It still might.  Usually, the first two days, guys jump out there and sort of come back to the field a little bit, but that didn't seem to happen today.  They didn't really run out there and hide.


Q.  Do you like your position then?

PETE JORDAN:  Yeah, I like it.  If I play with Brent tomorrow -- we're really good friends. Hopefully, we'll play together, and it would be a nice day.


Q.  How do you know him?

PETE JORDAN:  Just from out here, and during the Bop Hope this year, I stayed at his house.  We go out to dinner quite often and make fun of each other quite a bit.


Q.  Anything you'd care to share?

PETE JORDAN:  I probably shouldn't. (Laughs.)


Q.  You played well yesterday and again today.  Do these conditions play well to your game?

PETE JORDAN:  I'm playing pretty good.  I think anybody could adapt to any course when they are playing good, and I'm playing pretty good.  I just feel like I could control my golf ball really good right now.  I'm driving it pretty straight, and I think -- it feels like I could play anywhere right now.  But this course is fitting me really good.


Q.  How do you cope with the heat and the humidity?

PETE JORDAN:  This is nothing compared to last week.  I think it was like 115, 120 heat index last week; so this is nothing.  This is a cold front compared to last week.


Q.  Have you played in the last group before on a Saturday and do you envision any pressure?

PETE JORDAN:  Yeah, I think in Hawaii a couple years ago I did.  And maybe somewhere else, I really can't remember.  But I feel comfortable with it.  I'm not -- this is my sixth year out here.  I've pretty much seen everything, and nothing is going to surprise me tomorrow.


Q.  Were you tied in Hawaii, too, or leading?

PETE JORDAN:  I really can't remember, to tell you the truth.  I think I might have been leading.  No, I think I was one behind Scott Simpson.


Q.  Is this the first time you've had a lead at  halfway?

PETE JORDAN:  I think B.C. I think I was leading pretty much every day.  I was leading the B.C. Open every day.  I was in the last group there, too, Saturday and Sunday.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT