CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 29, 1999
Pete Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PETE JORDAN:  I birdied the 1st hole.  I hit a driver, and it was playing pretty long, actually this morning at 7:15.  I hit a driver and 5-iron about 10 feet behind the hole.  A little left-to-right put and made it; so, it was a good start.  Then I birdied No. 9, I guess.  I hit a driver, 9-iron about eight feet behind the hole and made that.  And 10, I hit a driver and a 5-iron about 15 feet right of the hole, and had a good read on that putt and made that one, also.  No. 11, hit an 8-iron.  Cut an 8-iron probably about 10, 15 feet left of the hole.  My caddie read that one; so, I can't take credit for that.  Number 12, I hit another 8-iron about 10 feet left of the hole.  Straight, uphill putt. 
 

Q.  Driver?
 
PETE JORDAN:  Yeah, driver, 8-iron.  14, I had driver, 8-iron, again.  Actually, I didn't hit it very close.  Probably about a 30-footer. Big swing left-to-right, and I was just trying to 2-putt and it went in; so that was a bonus.  15, I actually laid up.  I hit 5-iron and sand wedge about two feet.  And 16, I hit a 6-iron about 10 feet and made that. 
 
PETE JORDAN:  5, I wasn't feeling too comfortable after my start.  But I hit a 2-iron in the right bunker, and I thought I hit a pretty good bunker shot, but it stopped pretty quick, about 10, 15 feet short of the hole.  And I had a big, breaking putt and never had a chance. 
 
PETE JORDAN:  17, I hit a 3-wood off the tee and trying to cut it into the fairway and it didn't really cut and caught the bunker.  Second bunker on the left.  I was up against the lip and debating whether to lay up or not and I decided to go to the green, and I hit it on the right edge of the green and I had about a 60-foot putt, and hit it straight down the hill and hit a pretty good putt and hit it about eight feet by and missed it coming back.  
 

Q.  What's gotten into you the last couple of weeks?
 
PETE JORDAN:  I don't know.  I had a week off two weeks ago, and I went home and I decided I was going to give up on the irons I was using.  And I went through my garage, I must have went through 20 sets of clubs in six days.  Didn't like any of them.  Decided the last day I was home, I took out a set of clubs that I was using, but I had a different set of shafts in them.  I had never really used them before and decided to take them out and brought them out.  I really like them now.  I got used to them last week.  And my ball flight is a lot better.  A lot softer coming down on the greens. 
 

Q.  What kind?
 
PETE JORDAN:  I use Callaway.  But the shafts I put in there -- they are called a Memphis 10.  I think they are a lightweight, pretty weak shaft.  I was playing X-100 but I think they are a little too strong. 
 

Q.  So you were home during the British?
 
PETE JORDAN:  I was home during the British. I had my three kids and my sister's three kids at the house so I went out to the golf course every day. 
 

Q.  Just trying out a different set?
 
PETE JORDAN:  Just trying out a bunch of stuff.  I actually called another guy out here, Greg Craft.  He has probably got more clubs than I do. I asked him what he thinks I should do.  And we tried some of his, too and didn't like any of those either. It was weird. 
 

Q.  Pete, how would you expect the course to play this afternoon?
 
PETE JORDAN:  Well, this morning the fairways were very soft.  A lot of the holes were playing really long, for out here.  I think when the fairways dry up a little bit, guys will actually have shorter clubs into the greens.  But the greens might get beat up out there so that might equal it out.  They might not make as many putts, but I think the scores should be pretty low. 
 

Q.  It's still pretty cost?
 
PETE JORDAN:  The fairways are extremely soft.  Some holes you're only getting one or two yards a roll.  You're not used that out here.  It usually rolls forever.  I've hit irons into these holes I've never hit before.  Especially 7:15 in the morning, it's not fun hitting 2-, 3-, 4-irons into these greens. 
 

Q.  What time do you get up for a 7:15 start?
 
PETE JORDAN:  I usually get up two and a half hours before I tee off, but today, I only went with two hours.  So, 5:15, I guess. 
 

Q.  What was your mindset after struggles earlier  this year?
 
PETE JORDAN:  Even though I was playing bad this year, I was hitting some good shots.  I really wasn't getting anything out of my game.  If it wasn't one thing it was another.  It might be chipping one day and putting another day.  I just told myself to relax and be patient.  You know, the PGA is at my home course in two weeks, so this is the last week to qualify for it and I'm not in it.  So my motivation the last couple weeks is to get into the PGA, and I think I need a Top 3 finish here.  I'd love to play a major at my home course.  That would be great. 
 

Q.  How far do you little from Medinah?
 
PETE JORDAN:  Five miles. 
 

Q.  So are you right in the town of Medinah?
 
PETE JORDAN:  No.  I'm just outside of Woodale.  I grew up playing there as a kid.  I'm still a member there now.  So I've been there for 20 years. 
 

Q.  You grew up playing Medinah?
 
PETE JORDAN:  Actually more than that.  I can't believe I'm that old.  25 years. 
 

Q.  What would it mean to you to be able to play a major on your home course?
 
PETE JORDAN:  I'm sure it would be a lot of pressure, but I would love to find out and see.  I wouldn't care if I shot 80 every day.  I just want to play so bad there.  It would be a dream. 
 

Q.  I hear they lengthened it out for the tournament.
 
PETE JORDAN:  Here? 
 

Q.  No.  Medinah, they have stretched it a little bit.
 
PETE JORDAN:  I don't think so.  I think one hole they changed a little bit longer.  Other than that, the last time they had the Open there, I think they actually played the tees up a little bit and they might be planning on playing the back tees this time. 
 

Q.  7,400 yards or something?
 
PETE JORDAN:  It's a pretty long golf course. 
 

Q.  Played there recently?
 
PETE JORDAN:  I played a couple holes during the Western Open one day on a Wednesday.  I only played about four or five holes.  And it looked -- looked really good. 
 

Q.  What would be the key there?  Using the driver?
 
PETE JORDAN:  At Medinah?  I believe so. There's a couple holes you just want to hit 3-wood off.  Tiger might not hit driver every hole, but there's some holes where -- he'll be able to hit driver a lot.  You know, it's not going to be the British Open where he hits it ones or twice.  He's going to be able to hit it pretty much whenever he feels like it.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT