NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 29, 2006
Shawn Marion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you talk about the fact that you're a 20-10 guy but last night you were basically a 10-20 guy?  Did the game feel that different to you? 
 SHAWN MARION:  No, not really.  You gotta get the ball to score.  Sometimes, you know, I think we just -- we just want to say (inaudible) tip of the game that caused (inaudible) some shots I normally get.  And take the game up and move the ball more. 
 Q.  How do you get that tempo back to where -- to your pitch? 
 SHAWN MARION:  It's just one game.  I mean, last game just didn't run as much as we should have.  (Inaudible) out there creating some steals, turnovers.  I don't think we had no steals last night.  That's probably a little what starts it but at the same time we had some good blocks.  At the same time (inaudible) and do our thing. 
 Q.  Four fast break points, how much was you and lack of (inaudible) how much was it, not just you personally but you as a team? 
 SHAWN MARION:  I think it was just none of us, you know, (inaudible) because everybody was caught in position.  We were stagnant offensively or what.  We have to walk in there and let it hang up. 
 Q.  Seems like home court doesn't seem to mean so much in this series. 
 SHAWN MARION:  (Inaudible) I think we just gotta walk in and do what we gotta do.  I think we were struggling offensively and we played good defense, but, we've got to put this one behind us and we'll get the next one. 
 Q.  The playoffs are supposed to get harder as they go along, do you feel that's the case with this one considering you already won seven games twice? 
 SHAWN MARION:  I don't even think about it like that.  I take it one game at a time, just go out there and do what we gotta do and leave it on the floor. 
 Q.  Is this series tougher than the other two? 
 SHAWN MARION:  I don't know. 
 Q.  Not yet? 
 SHAWN MARION:  No.  I don't think so. 
 Q.  How would you describe your attitude, your mood today after last night? 
 SHAWN MARION:  You all sitting here watching it just like me.  I think everybody was pretty good.  Tim got some shots up, looked at some tape, blocked some stuff.  We're good. 
 Q.  How did you think you guys were playing Suns basketball? 
 SHAWN MARION:  Because I don't know if everybody was thinking too much on the offensive end.  I think on defense we were actually doing what we were supposed to do. 
 Got some good stops but offensively everybody was thinking about whether they should shoot it, pass it, or dribble or what.  And that's not us. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT