NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 25, 2006
Shawn Marion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SHAWN MARION:  I think so. 
 Q.  Just a little bit? 
 SHAWN MARION:  No.  (Inaudible) a little better off.  Three points.  Post game, you know (inaudible) we all (inaudible) so we -- 
 Q.  Adrian (inaudible)? 
 SHAWN MARION:  I mean, well, I think jam us for three.  (Inaudible) so getting -- whatever I think -- you know, I think the game, the pace of the game was really fast, they couldn't play on big man.  If they can play on big man they don't have any shot blockers.  They get to the bucket and finish. 
 Q.  You guys have struggled in Game 2 because you've lost all the Game 2s in your series? 
 SHAWN MARION:  Who? 
 Q.  And you lost Game 2 last year here in Dallas.  Is there a realization what's at stake here and what you can do in this series with Game 2? 
 SHAWN MARION:  Yeah, definitely.  Now we gotta be more focused than what we were in previous Game 2s. 
 Q.  Thank you for the obvious. 
 SHAWN MARION:  And you know I think we can go ahead and make something happen tomorrow.  We'll go out and everybody has to step up because we might be one man short.  So that means what we got all the people step up.  And so we gotta -- 
 Q.  Do you have to get to the fact that the other guys (inaudible) situations and all you guys are (inaudible) Kurt and Amare? 
 SHAWN MARION:  It's not good but it is part of the business.  Part of the game.  Everybody, you know, injuries is happening. 
 But everyone wants to step up and take the next challenge. 
 Q.  Was that one of the strengths of the team, willingness not to make excuses? 
 SHAWN MARION:  I think it's all part of it.  We go out and help each other as much as we can.  That's a good thing for us. 
 Q.  How is your ankle? 
 SHAWN MARION:  It hurts a little bit.  I'm treating it.  But I'm good, I'm good. 
 Q.  Able to start? 
 SHAWN MARION:  I'm good.  I'd like to (inaudible). 
 Q.  Do you make -- 
 SHAWN MARION:  Yeah, I'm not -- it's not even, it's a no-brainer. 
 Q.  You guys -- 
 SHAWN MARION:  Still nothing.  I can walk out there and give them everything they want.  Everything is meant to happen. 
 Q.  How about the outside game last night?  Usually you guys are a little bit -- 
 SHAWN MARION:  I think we're jamming three.  We didn't get no opportunities to shoot no threes and the ones -- I think the ones we did shoot, how many of them were really good looking.  And same time they make (inaudible) on threes. 
 Q.  Obviously you're going to be at a disadvantage in rebounding but getting the second chance points, you guys they really outscored you? 
 SHAWN MARION:  We make sure we go to the glass, as a team collectively.  I think all five players go in there and rebound.  Basically like the other series, know what I'm saying, but at the same time you gotta give up something. 
 Q.  Is the series so much different than the other two?  Can you describe the difference obviously when you take the (inaudible)? 
 SHAWN MARION:  Well, I guess you could sit here and compare all three series and all three teams they're all different in different ways.  Always on somebody big. 
 But we go out there and get it done.  That's what it boils down to. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT