NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 6, 2011
Shawn Marion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you describe how the critics and the fans across the nation sort of have been against you in the playoffs, but now everyone is rooting behind you? Can you talk about that feeling, describe it?   
 SHAWN MARION: I don't know if that's a feeling or not. It's not even -- I mean, it's not even worthy of a response. It's about us. It's not about whether anybody agree or disagree. We know what we're capable of. That's what it boils down to.   
  
  Q. Turnovers, is that mental concentration?   
 SHAWN MARION: I think it's a little bit of both. It all coincides. Last night we are one of the best teams in dealing with offensive teams. (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. How important is it for you to get at least two or three other guys to step up and help each other out?   
 SHAWN MARION: We're all helping each other. We've all been playing our parts. It's not one-sided. Both ends of the floor as well. It's all a team effort on both ends.   
 At the same time, we have to help each other more and focus in a little more.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the fact that the games are more low-scoring, more defensive than in the course of the playoffs. How can you get that tempo pushed up to your liking?   
 SHAWN MARION: It is what it is. Both teams are playing great defense. You can make a notch on that. At the same time you have to give our offense a better chance. We have to take care of the ball more. Yeah, that's what it boils down to. Both teams are playing really good defense. You have to take advantage of that. They capitalize on our turnovers.   
  
  Q. People have wondered all season, this team, Miami, is Wade going to take over or is LeBron going to take over, Chris? What have you seen and how difficult has it been to sort of cover all three?   
 SHAWN MARION: They are a talented team. Their big three are (Indiscernible). At the same time it's not letting other guys get off. You can contain them guys and let them get their points, cool. Don't let other guys have big nights. Mario Chalmers, Udonis Haslem, Mike Miller, we can't let them have big games. That's the difference.   
  
  Q. What about Dwyane, what have you seen last night?   
 SHAWN MARION: He's made some tough shots. He's a competitor. I have so much respect for him. We have to make it harder for him. He's able to do a lot of different things out there on the floor. It's been effective. He's averaging like 33, 35 points the last few games.   
  
  Q. How surprised were you when he got those guys to go to Miami? You know what it's like to play there.   
 SHAWN MARION: We don't care about that right now. Both of us are in The Finals. That's all that matters.   
   
    
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT