NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 2, 2011
Shawn Marion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Dallas Mavericks 95
  Miami Heat  93 
   
  Q. Shawn, did it remind you of Oklahoma City? And also, what did you think of Dwyane Wade posing? Tyson Chandler and a couple of other guys said it bothered them.   
 SHAWN MARION: This is a different game. This is a different series. But we always believed that we could come back regardless of the score. The game is over when the final buzzer rings.   
 And as far as somebody posing, I didn't see that. I was so tuned into the game I wasn't worried about nothing else but playing the game.   
  
  Q. What's your feeling now with the series being 1-1 going to Dallas?   
 SHAWN MARION: It's a good feeling. We're going back home. We came out here and got one. But we still got a long way to go. It's the best-of-a-seven-game series, best-of-a-five-game series now. We have three at home.   
  
  Q. Shawn, what do you make of Dirk flooring the ball with his left and finishing with his left, splint and all at the end?   
 SHAWN MARION: Oh, man. That was a big finish. Big-time move. That's what it takes.   
  
  Q. Shawn, even though this is a different series, how much were you guys saying, we've been in this position before in that fourth quarter once you got down by 15?   
 SHAWN MARION: I mean, you know if you watch us play all season, you know we're a resilient team. The game ain't over until the final buzzer rings.   
 We're always very confident and we just stay active. We know we can get consecutive stops in the row and hit some shots we would be back in this and we did that.   
  
  Q. When Dirk and Jet were struggling there for most of the game, you were able to keep the guys in it. Why do you think you've been so effective through these first few games offensively?   
 SHAWN MARION: I've been just being aggressive on both ends of the floor. I think I'm seeing some things I can take advantage of and I'm doing it. My teammates are finding me, the balls are finding me in ways to create opportunities for myself and my teammates. I'm taking advantage of it.   
  
  Q. What are the things you are seeing that you can take advantage of?   
 SHAWN MARION: Did you watch the game?   
  
  Q. I did.   
 SHAWN MARION: What did you see?   
  
  Q. I saw you taking advantage of things. I would like you to talk about it.   
 SHAWN MARION: Just when the ball do come to me, being aggressive and taking the ball to the rack. Also, I was able to handle some pick-and-rolls. I like that. I was able to come off and be aggressive and attack more. Find my teammates or attack the basket.   
  
  Q. Shawn, this is the perfect situation to attack the basket. You've done that your whole life. How did it feel to be everything you were supposed to be right that minute, attacking the basket?   
 SHAWN MARION: I mean, I guess you got to pick and choose your moments out there. The opportunities you get, you have to be aggressive when you do go, because you never know when you're going to get an uncontested lay-up or just a lay-up period. So just being aggressive, attacking and seizing the opportunities, you just got to do it.   
  
  Q. Shawn, Game 1 against the Lakers, down 16, on the road. Game 4 against Oklahoma City, down 15, five minutes left. Today, again, on the road, down 15. How much more difficult is it to do that at the end of a game down that much on the road?   
 SHAWN MARION: I don't know. I don't know. For some reason we always been -- I've been here two years, and we've been a good road team. We like the road, for some reason. But at the same time, we just stay focused, man. We was out there and we was poised. We didn't get rattled. And we knew we could take care of business and give ourselves a chance to win this game.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT