NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 1, 2011
Shawn Marion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Shawn, I know a lot of people want to make a big deal about Dirk's finger. What is the situation? Do you think it will hamper him at all?   
 SHAWN MARION: No, he ain't worried about it. We ain't worried about it. It's only his left finger. It shouldn't affect his shooting at all.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 SHAWN MARION: Like I said last night, we have to play the style we play, we're capable of moving the ball. We saw the game on film. We just watched it. We have to learn from the mistakes from last night.   
  
  Q. Did you watch the film this morning?   
 SHAWN MARION: Yes.   
  
  Q. What did you make of that third quarter and all the missed opportunities?   
 SHAWN MARION: We had some good looks last night in the game. We missed a lot of shots we normally get. You have to give credit to them as well how they made some adjustments and how they were showing aggressively and how they were able to take advantage of that. At the same time, we've seen some things we can definitely take advantage of.   
  
  Q. Is it just a matter of stepping up in those situations?   
 SHAWN MARION: Definitely. It's a matter of a little bit of everything. Energy and effort. Just all things.   
  
  Q. Defensively you were able to keep their percentage down. Is there a thin line you have to be able to control?   
 SHAWN MARION: Definitely. We have to come in more intensely. We know what we're capable of doing. (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. Do you think Dirk's finger will hamper him when maybe not shooting, what about rebounding and defensively?   
 SHAWN MARION: I don't think so. It's his pinky. It will be all right.   
  
  Q. When you watched the tape of the fourth quarter yesterday, what did they do that affected you guys?   
 SHAWN MARION: I guess putting LeBron on Jason Terry definitely. We've seen that adjustment they made. They kind of forced him out a little bit. A couple of times he didn't see opportunities. At the same time we have to be more aggressive on both ends of the floor. When you got a chance to attack these guys, you have to attack them.   
  
  Q. Are there things you saw you can rectify the next time out?   
 SHAWN MARION: On both ends of the floor. It's not just one side. Definitely make some adjustments on defense and of course on offense. We have some things we can definitely correct and we're going to (Indiscernible).  
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT