NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
May 31, 2011
Shawn Marion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Dallas Mavericks 84
  Miami Heat  92

 Q. Shawn, is this one of those games you guys just kind of felt that you kind of let get away? Seemed like the opportunities were there, but just didn't bounce your way. 
 SHAWN MARION: Yeah, I think, you know, we were there. I think rebounding killed us tonight. Their bench came in and played well, too. Our bench didn't do too well tonight. Their bench outplayed our bench. But for the most part, we think we had chances to get ahold of this game and we let it out of our hands. 

 Q. Shawn, you kind of took the words out of my mouth. I'm wondering about the rebounding and I'm wondering about the bench. Do you have any explanations why those two things didn't go well? 
 SHAWN MARION: Not exactly. I tell you this, though, we didn't win too many games getting 67 shots. For the most part, a lot of the shots we did get, they were good looks but they were running off our shots as well. I'll give them credit for that. 
 For the most part, that's not us. I think we're -- I don't see that was a team that we were capable of playing on the offensive end. Defense I think we were pretty solid at times. It wasn't good enough to win the game. 

 Q. Shawn, when you look at this series, if their big three plays like this, how much do you guys have to collectively come together around Dirk? Do you have as much firepower to match up with them or do you have to do it as a team? 
 SHAWN MARION: We have plenty of firepower. That's not the question. The question is going out there and making sure we play our style of game. We got into playing their game. We got into a half court game and they prevailed. You guys see exactly what they focus on and how they guard in certain situations. They made sure they did a very good job out of it and took us out a lot of things we normally do. 

 Q. Shawn, you guys held them to 38%. How low does the bar have to go to be able to win a game? 
 SHAWN MARION: I mean, you hold a team to 38%, and 92 points, for us that's usually a victory. To score 84 points is very rare for us. To get 67 shots as well. Even to shoot 37%. Most times we shoot 37% from the field, the other team is going to shoot lower than that. It was about equal. And we only was able to score 84 points. 

 Q. What has to happen for you guys to get going offensively? 
 SHAWN MARION: I think we have to force the game. Go out there and play ball. We kind of got complacent and really just tried to play a half-court game, which is okay because we've done a good job of doing it, but we have to also play ball. I think we were just calling so many sets, it just kind of took the rhythm out of everything we normally do. When we're out there freelancing and just playing the game and making it up as we go, we're one of the best to do it. 

 Q. Shawn, speaking to that, when you guys play that kind of flow offense, you guys did that very well when you closed out Oklahoma City. What was the reasoning for going to a more structured set? Was that the plan coming in? Why didn't you guys go with the flow? 
 SHAWN MARION: I don't know. Maybe it was the way they were playing everything. I don't know. We're going to go back and watch film. Maybe I can answer that question for you or the coach can answer it for you. I don't know. At the same time, what we have to see what they did do and what they didn't do. That's the way we have to play. 

 Q. Do you see this set the tone for the whole series? 
 SHAWN MARION: This is the first game of the series. It's a long way to go. This is a great challenge for both teams. And they got the first win tonight. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Shawn. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT