NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v GIANTS
October 7, 2010
Tommy Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KATY FEENEY: Questions for Tommy Hanson. 

 Q. Tommy, you said the other day when you were here in April the fans let you guys have it here. Is that something you can feed off of, the opposing fans? 
 TOMMY HANSON: I think so, I think it makes it a little bit more fun. They were on us a little bit when we were here that first weekend, so I'm sure it will be the same thing when we go out there today and tomorrow. So I think it makes it more fun, I guess. 

 Q. Now that you're here and you've had a couple days to kinda get used to things, how do you feel going into your first post-season start? You excited? You seem like you're as calm as ever. 
 TOMMY HANSON: I guess the key word is "excited!"
I want to get out there. I really want to get going and get my routine underway and start stretching and throwing and get loose and take the mound. I'm excited. I'm excited for the game today, and just to be able to watch and come up with a game plan tomorrow with Roger and Mac, and then to get out there and start goin'. 

 Q. With the dimensions and conditions here, this is known as a pitcher's ballpark. The Giants pitchers have obviously learned how to take advantage of that. Have you learned how to do that here? Can visiting pitchers do that, too? How do you think it will affect the series? 
 TOMMY HANSON: I don't think it's that much different than our park. We play in a big park, and the ball doesn't carry that much, either. When you go to someplace like Philly, you have to make adjustments. But I don't think going from our park to this park you have to do anything different. 

 Q. Tommy, having a dozen or so guys on the team who have post-season experience including some pitchers, does that help? Have you guys had a chance to talk, whether it's on a plane or just in general, about what to expect? 
 TOMMY HANSON: I talk to D. Lowe about it all the time. I think it's fun to pick his brain because he's been through it and he won a World Series with the Red Sox, and he's a funny guy to talk to and hear his point of view. 
 I'm just taking it as it's another game. Obviously it's on a bigger scale, but it's just another baseball game. You've got to go out there and make good pitches. And if I can do that, I feel like I'm going to give us a good game. 

 Q. How bad are the fans here? Worst in baseball? 
 TOMMY HANSON: No, I wouldn't say that. They were into the game and ragging us like a lot of other parks do. So obviously with the playoffs being here, I'm assuming it's going to be a little worse. 

 Q. Tommy, holding runners is something that's still a work in progress for you. It's something you've made improvements on this year, but with the expected premium, there is going to be on runs in this series. Does it emphasize that, that much more? 
 TOMMY HANSON: I think so. I don't think that's a secret, of me holding runs and trying to keep 'em on first. You know, I think I just need to, you know, mix in some slide steps and pick over a little bit more and, you know, just do the best I can to, you know, change my times and hold some balls and quick-pitch and do some things like that to keep 'em from getting those good jumps. 

 Q. Tommy, not to be overly sentimental, but knowing this is Bobby Cox's last time as Braves manager, you guys feel something a little more special that you want to win this series for him? 
 TOMMY HANSON: Yeah, I think this whole season has been special, especially to be able to play for him and especially in his last year. We went in the clubhouse and we have those shirts that says "11 for 6 ," so it's definitely exciting. I don't think we're thinking about that too much. Obviously, we want to take it one game and everything, one step at a time, but that would be awesome to be able to do that. 

 Q. You started making adjustments after those two final starts, June? Did everything fall into place there in September for you? 
 TOMMY HANSON: I felt like it did. I felt like I had a lot of confidence, and I felt like I was locked in on what I was trying to do on the mound and how I was trying to attack guys. 
 You know, all my pitches have been feeling really good, too. So I think once I got to September and got some confidence, after I moved over to the other side of the rubber and felt comfortable over there, I felt like I was, you know, I've been throwing the ball well, I feel like. 

 Q. Back to your manager, what's the most -- what's the smartest thing he said to you, the most interesting thing he said to you, that you really took to heart? 
 TOMMY HANSON: I don't know. To be honest with you, he doesn't talk to us pitchers a lot. There has been a couple of times where he's told me I need to emphasize on keepin' the ball down, and I think that's helped me out a lot. But really, it's just being around him. It's always -- it feels like he's always in our corner and he's always pullin' for us. So I think that's the biggest key and kind of a comfort thing, playin' for him. 

 Q. Tommy, what's the feeling of going from hours in a full league to the playoffs in such a short period of time? 
 TOMMY HANSON: It's crazy, you know? I'm still taking it all in, and it's just an awesome feeling. It feels like I just got called up not too long ago, and now I'm here on the playoffs. I couldn't picture it, you know, being with a better group of guys, you know. All the guys are awesome to be around and this whole season has been one of the funniest seasons I've ever had. So it's kind of suiting that we're in this situation that we're in now. 
 KATY FEENEY: Thank you, Tommy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT