PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2012
Rod Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about the second round today and your first PGA Championship?  
ROD PERRY:   Sure.   Second round today obviously didn't go as planned, 82 today.   Conditions were really, really, really difficult, especially during the middle as we were making the turn.   So 10, which was No.1‑‑ 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, that stretch in there.   It was the toughest of all conditions, heavy winds and a little bit of rain at times.   Unfortunately I didn't play very well.   
But I loved the week.   It's been a fabulous experience.   13 over, cut is probably somewhere around 5‑over, so eight shots I missed the cut by.   I guess I could come up with eight shots that I could have had saved.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel coming in the first day with all the pros that were here for the week?   What were your thoughts on that?  
ROD PERRY:   It was okay.   I mean, it's obviously a four‑round tournament, at least that's what you hope to play.   So I don't really give much weight to the first‑round scores.   It was nice to get off to a good start, and I played even through the first nine, which was nice, and then gave a couple up in the evening coming in, which was kind of disappointing.  
   
 Q.   You had two birdies on the back nine, correct?  
ROD PERRY:   Yeah, one was just a hole‑out from a cart path.   And then the other one was a par‑5 where I made a putt.   Of course I didn't get the goose egg today.  
   
 Q.   How tough was this course compared to some of the ones that you've played in the past?   
ROD PERRY:   It is much, much tougher than what I'm used to, certainly, not only in length but the penalties for mis‑hitting shots or missing greens is much more severe than what we typically see as professionals.   And then you throw in the wind, then you throw in the severity of the event, the weight of the overall event, it's a lot more difficult than what we're used to.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT