AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 14, 2001
Bernie Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Bernie, El Duque was in here a second ago.  He said before the game, the team almost acted like it was the team with the lead in the series.  Is that true?
 
BERNIE WILLIAMS:  I don't know about that.  I knew that we were just joking around.  It seemed pretty relaxed.  We were just watching a couple of the games that were being played in the east coast and some of the football games.  It was a very relaxed atmosphere out there. 
 
Q.  No sense of elimination impending?
 
BERNIE WILLIAMS:  No, we weren't really thinking about that.  We were just -- A lot of the guys were preparing.  A lot of guys were taking treatment.  And a lot of guys were just having breakfast, just joking around, and very relaxed. 
 
Q.  Bernie, along those lines, anything that stands out in your mind from pregame, Joe saying anything to the team or any team leader saying anything?
 
BERNIE WILLIAMS:  No, Joe didn't say anything, nor any of the guys.  We were just getting on each other, saying let's go or things like that, but just jokingly, not really serious about it.  We were all aware of the situation.  There was no sense on just rubbing it in.  We knew that we were down 2 games to 1 and it was a must-win situation.  But in the clubhouse, you just don't want to be on pins and needles out there.  This is a time for relaxing, and when the game comes, you let it all out.  But that was the time to prepare. 
 
Q.  You had success on first pitch the first times up, what were you looking for?  Did it just happen to be there?
 
BERNIE WILLIAMS:  It was the pitch probably around the middle of the plate.  The location was maybe a little bit up in the zone, and it was an all-speed pitch, I think it was a curveball. 
 
Q.  Was that the double?
 
BERNIE WILLIAMS:  Yeah, that was the one that he was maybe trying to throw for a strike, and I was able to recognize it early enough and put a good swing on it. 
 
Q.  What are your impressions of Mark Mulder from Game 1, and do you plan to change your approach at all tomorrow?
 
BERNIE WILLIAMS:  Very tough, very tough.  He gets ahead, but he doesn't really get ahead with a pitch that you can handle.  He throws strikes, but he's always in the tough part of the strike zone.  So I don't think we can change too much about our approach.  We've got to stay disciplined.  We try to make sure that we capitalize on the mistakes that he makes.  I don't think he's going to make too many. 
 
Q.  Bernie, even in all of this run.  Does a performance like this surprise you at all?  Does anything the team does surprise you?
 
BERNIE WILLIAMS:  I don't want to downplay this, but I will say no.  Because we have been in the situation before, and we know what we need to do to win ballgames.  And I think for the most part we're playing with just a fearless mentality.  I think we were pretty tied up in the first couple of games.  And we were out there thinking we're just going to go all out, and whatever happens happens, and not worry too much about the results but worrying about the approach, and it seemed to work.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT