AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 13, 1999
Bernie Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can could you talk about your mindset for the last at-bat?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: I was trying to have a good at-bat, get on base at least. First guy
starting off an inning, we got so many good guys hitting behind me that I was just trying
to have a good at-bat and get on base. 
 
Q. Maybe as you were rounding the bases, did 1996, first game of the ALCS 1996 come to
mind?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: That was all I was thinking about the inning before, you know, when
Paul grounded out, it was kind of like a set-up for the same situation that I had in 1996.
But tried to keep it off my mind because it is a different pitcher, different team, but
the set up is sort of the same. But what are the chances of it happening twice? Not too
much. 
 
Q. You guys got a break in the top half of the inning. Any sense that you should jump
on it?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I mean we were trying to end that game even before that. We were
trying so hard to capitalize. We had a few men on base and a lot of opportunities to score
and we just didn't do it. If it took a break like that to get us going, you know, it is
welcomed. 
 
Q. How close were you to coming to Boston in the offseason?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: I would say very close. We had a lot of conversations with my agent
and Mr. Duquette and Mr. Williams and I have nothing but good things to say about them,
the way they handled the conversations and everything that transpired over that period of
time. But it is over and I guess I am glad that I am here. 
 
Q. Is there any sense that you had when the ball left the bat that it was gone?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: No. I didn't think it was going to be gone. I knew that he had his
back to me and I figured he was going to play it off the wall. When it went I was just --
I was so surprised. It was unbelievable. 
 
Q. Beck, first pitch, inside fastball, that is what he was trying to do again. Were you
guessing and the ball just went out over the plate?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: No, not really. If I would have been guessing I probably would have
pulled it foul. I think that I remember last time I faced him here in New York he threw me
a pitch off the plate, it was inside, he broke my bat. And in those situations talking
with Chris and talking with Joe, I think probably the best thing to approach -- best way
to approach it is just to stay inside and not try to pull it and that is what I did, tried
to stay inside the ball and I hit it in a good part of the bat and put my hips into it and
it got -- it went out. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT