AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 5, 1999
Bernie Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BERNIE WILLIAMS: Let me see... I think it was -- he had two strikes. We were playing
him a little bit to pull, Juan. He hit the ball the other way, I started running. I didn't
think I had a shot at it, but the last minute, the ball just stayed up a little bit, you
know, longer than I had anticipated and it gave me a chance to dive and I was fortunate
enough to make the catch.

Q. When you make a play like that defensively, how much does that inspire you at the
plate? Does that have a carryover effect?

BERNIE WILLIAMS: Not really. Not really. I was just trying to figure him out, you know,
he has gotten me out the last two at-bats. It was good because the runs didn't score. That
was a good thing. But as far as going to the plate, I was just doing a good job separating
my defense from my offense, and I was just trying to figure Sele out. I did.

Q. A lot of times teams feel they can get into an opponent's bullpen, that's part of
the team, that he's a good thing. Do you guys feel this way against this team because you
got to them tonight?

BERNIE WILLIAMS: I just feel like we need to score a lot of runs throughout the game
because they can hit with the best of them. What happened tonight was an exception rather
than a rule. Those guys can hit with the best of them and we just need to keep scoring
runs. It doesn't matter who we score against, the starting pitcher or the, you know,
bullpen, we just need to score runs.

Q. Could you take us through that at-bat where you hit the two-run double? What
happened?

BERNIE WILLIAMS: I got the count to 0-2, I said to myself, "Stay focused" try
to have a good at-bat. He made a couple tough pitches, that back door breaking ball. It
was very close. I decided not to swing at it and he decided to call it a ball. After that,
I don't think he threw me a fastball up until the end, he tried to sneak that fast ball in
there, that last pitch. I was thinking, try to hit the ball up the middle, straight away
or left center field. It was just, you know, cut the outside of the plate a little bit and
I was able to put some good wood on it. I hit it pretty hard.

Q. You had six putouts in the outfield besides the double, home run and six RBIs. Did
you feel a special game coming on, like in pregame warmups? Did you feel a special game
coming on?

BERNIE WILLIAMS: No. Actually, I thought I was going to have a terrible night. You
know, I was sleepy and dragging a little bit and it was cold. All throughout batting
practice, I was like wow, I don't know how I'm going to get through this. Something
happened when they said the line-ups. I started hearing the anthem. Something inside of me
just woke up, said it's time to play. And that's what happened. After that inning that I,
you know, grounded out to first base, I said you just got to go out there and play hard,
you got to wake up. This is the post-season. This is not the regular season anymore.

Q. Bernie, last year you were playing under the pressure of going towards free agency.
How much different is this now with all that gone and everything settled?

BERNIE WILLIAMS: I suppose as far as the pressure on the field, it's the same. Last
year, I think the easiest part was playing the game. I had so many distractions off the
field that I felt that those three and a half, four hours I spent on the field playing the
game was the easiest part. Right now I feel the same way. We're having a lot of fun, and
so far it's been great. So I have no complaints.

Q. Does it feel at all like '96, your post-season in '96?

BERNIE WILLIAMS: It's just the first game. You know, we still have a lot of work to do.
Those guys are, it's like walking up an ant hill. They're going to come out swinging, and
I don't blame them. So we just got to be ready. Can't take them lightly at all. Tomorrow
is going to be a different -- I mean Thursday's going to be a different game, and we just
got to keep doing the same things that we're doing right now and we got to be ready for
them.

Q. Joe said before that after Zim got hit, you came over and said something to him and
it sparked him a little bit. Can you share what you said with him and if it woke you up?

BERNIE WILLIAMS: I don't know. Just the whole atmosphere was very emotional when we saw
Zim on the ground just, you know, yelling in pain. And it was just very emotional for all
of us. I felt that, you know, we should stay in the game. So I saw Joe just a little bit,
you know, watery eyes and he definitely looked upset about the whole situation. And I just
came to his side and told him that, you know, if he was all right, if he was with us, just
to stay with us in the game, and, you know, that was the whole thing. Later on, I asked
him if he was mad because I told him that, he said, no, not at all. So... It was a good
thing. The whole team got together and we were able to pull it through.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT