MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 21, 1998
Bernie Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bernie, was there a point that you realized that Scott Brosius was a clutch hitter?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: Well, I always knew that he had the capabilities of being a great
hitter. Two years ago when he was in Oakland, I always had a lot of respect for him. I
really don't know what happened the year that he hit .203, but that's out of character. I
always knew that he could hit. 
 
Q. Bernie, you hear some players talking about what it means to wear the Yankee
uniform, it sounds kind of corny, but does it mean something special to wear the uniform?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: To me it's an honor, basically it's an honor for me. I think the first
couple of years that I came into the Big Leagues, I was just so excited to be there that
probably any team would have done. But down through my third to fourth year, I started to
be aware of all the tradition and all of the things that came up just for being a Yankee.
And the type of sort of responsibilities, if you will, were to me, to play in the same
position that all those great players in the past played in Yankee Stadium, and to me it's
an honor, and I don't take any day that I play there for granted. 
 
Q. Joe had left here a minute ago and he was almost in tears, he said he doesn't know
what he would do without you next year, has he expressed that same sentiment to you?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: No, not yet. Hopefully in the next couple of weeks. 
 
Q. There's been a lot of stuff when you go to New York in every paper about you being
on the verge of leaving, and distancing yourself from everybody and not taking part in the
celebrations, and that kind of stuff. Is that correct or is it off base or what do you
think about that stuff?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: I don't think it's true. I think in the past three years now I've been
approaching the game the same way that I have in the past two postseasons, I was the same
way, I was very reserved, just trying to stay focused on playing the game. I think the
circumstances surrounding my situation right now with my contract negotiations and all the
distractions that I've had during the year, has maybe somewhat made people assume that I'm
trying to distance myself from the team, and doing all kinds of stuff, but I haven't
changed. And that thing hasn't distracted me during the regular season, and it's not going
to distract me in the postseason. 
 
Q. In moments alone do you picture yourself and how life would be if or when you're not
a Yankee?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: I'm not really thinking about that right now. I'll be a fool not to
enjoy the time that I have right now, being in the postseason, three out of my last four
years, having an opportunity to win the World Series this year, and having won it in '96,
it's been a great time for me. And it doesn't make any sense for me to worry about what's
going to happen in the future. When that time comes, I'm going to have all the things in
front of me to make -- hopefully make a wise decision, but right now I'm focusing on
having a good series and enjoying the time that I have right now. 
 
Q. Bernie, has it become more difficult for you to keep that focus as the season
progresses or have you found it's been pretty easy to stay at the same level?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: Well, I found that every year that I've played here I've always played
under a different challenge. And every year it's different. And this year the challenge
was all the distractions because of the contract negotiations. And I've taken a lot of
pride in playing through all the distractions and playing through all the challenges, and
trying to overcome all the adversity that has happened, whether it's good or bad, I've
always been able to focus and trying to keep my head straight and play hard, trying to
separate the aspect of the -- the business aspect of the game from the aspect that I like
doing the most, which is playing. 
 
Q. Bernie, is it harder now than it was on April 15th, or is it as easy now?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: I think it's the same. Sometimes I let it slip a little bit and in the
back of my mind it's all that uncertainty feeling of not knowing what's going to happen
next year, but then I start thinking about the things that are happening to me right now
and I feel very blessed and I'm just going to worry about that when the time comes. 
 
Q. Bernie, I just saw you congratulate Joe Torre about being named Manager of the Year,
he said he ought to thank you, he said it's a by-product of what you and the other players
have done?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: I feel great. Joe has been -- he just has been a great manager for us,
a great leader for us. I think he really has taken the trouble to know what makes
everybody tick and how he can get the best out of everybody, to play up to the best of
their ability. And he's very aware of the player as an individual and as a person, and I
have a lot to thank him for, in my personal life. So I'm just very happy for him. 
 
Q. Bernie, have you thought at all about the idea that this might have been the last
time you put on this uniform tonight? 
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: No, not until you brought it up. But I'm just not going to let myself
think about that possibility right now. I have a lot more things to think about, within
the next three or four hours, and then after that. So it's just going to be a matter of
staying focused on the things that I need to do, and think very short-term, very, very
short-term right now. 
 
Q. Bernie, while you've been reluctant to talk about the future, can you at least say
that your top choice would be to return to the Yankees?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: I'll say it's probably about as good as any other team right now. I
think -- I have a lot of memories here and playing here, I don't know anything else. I
wouldn't know what it is to play for another team. And is that going to weigh into my
decision, yeah, it is, but right now we have had a lot of history of past things that have
happened between both parties and it's just a thing that I wouldn't want to get into right
now. I think my focus should be on other things right now. 
 
Q. Bernie, if this team does win one more game in this series, how do you think this
Yankee team should be remembered, is this one of the greatest teams ever?
 
 BERNIE WILLIAMS: I don't know. To me it would be, because I'm part of this team. And
I'm very proud of what we have accomplished this year. The fact that we won 114 games and
have an opportunity to win the World Series, when I look back at it 10, 15 years from now,
I'm going to say that I played with probably one of the best teams that have ever played
in the American League. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT