U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Linda Ferrando
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. When you had set point in the first, was that a real big part of the match you
think? 
 
 LINDA FERRANDO: Well, I play each set point, I play well because I came to the net. She
pass me very well, so nothing change.  
 
Q. Did you feel -- had you her 3-Love and then a set point; did you feel that she might
have been beatable today? 
 
 LINDA FERRANDO: Yes, when I was especially 6-5, 30-Love, Love-30, yes, I have the
feeling with the win, even the set, maybe even the match.  
 
Q. Were you just talking about your lead, is that what you were talking about? What
happened, you were up 3-Love in the first? 
 
 LINDA FERRANDO: Yeah, so she start maybe to play a little bit better. She tried to pass
me a little bit more to my back and I don't know, maybe I didn't serve very well after
3-Love; especially when we were 3-1 for me and I don't know.  
 
Q. In the beginning you looked like you were playing sensational. 
 
 LINDA FERRANDO: Yeah.  
 
Q. Even though you couldn't have been practicing because of the rain. How do you
account for that? 
 
 LINDA FERRANDO: Well, I don't know. I was very relaxed; not worried and I played my
tennis.  
 
Q. How could you be so relaxed in the U.S. Open? 
 
 LINDA FERRANDO: Well, when -- you have to play the seeded No. 2 and the 2 number in the
world, you have nothing to lose, so sometimes you can be relaxed. Sometimes maybe you can
be tight. Today I was relaxed.  
 
Q. What do you think her chances are to win the tournament? 
 
 LINDA FERRANDO: Well, she is playing very well, even she beat Graf two weeks ago, so I
think she can win the tournament.  
 
Q. What makes you think so -- she can win the tournament? You just said I think she can
win the tournament. Why? 
 
 LINDA FERRANDO: Because she has a lot of confidence. She move very well. She never
mistake and-- but Martina, she is not playing, so I don't know, Graf, maybe in the finals
it is tough, but I mean she has a chance to win.  
 
Q. Thank you very much. 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT