AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 22, 2013
Jamie Hampton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. VESNINA/J. Hampton
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You looked like you had more problems with the wind today than before.   
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Yeah, the conditions were definitely tougher than yesterday.   She played the conditions much better than I did.   
I was surprised honestly how she was even hitting the ball in the court, and on top of that she was playing very good tennis.   She was very deserving of the title today.  
   
 Q.   Sum up your week here for us.   
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Very encouraging.   I'm very proud of myself for fighting through all the adversity, having to come through quallies and fighting through all the conditions all week.  
Obviously I'm disappointed that I lost today and I would have loved to have won it, but on to the next tournament.  
   
 Q.   You take a lot of positives out of it?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Absolutely.   Like I said, just to stick it out and to be positive, you know, I learned a lot from this week, a lot of firsts for me, again, and my ranking is improving.   All in all it's a positive.  
   
 Q.   Eight games in eight days.   You only have to play seven games to win Wimbledon.   Were you tired today?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   No, not at all.   
   
 Q.   Is it the adrenaline that's keeping you going?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   No.   I just think that I'm pretty fit.   I mean, professional tennis player.  
   
 Q.   So tell us about your mindset now.   You are obviously meeting Sloane.   How are you going to approach?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   You know, I don't know yet.   I have given myself like a two‑hour time limit to sulk, basically the journey up to Wimbledon, can sulk, maybe have a little chocolate (smiling) and then move on and get on with Wimbledon, start thinking about the match a little bit.   
Obviously it's a bummer that we have to play first round.   She's playing well coming off fourth round at Roland Garros.   I don't think she's played a grass court tournament.   I have gotten a lot of match play in, so that's definitely a positive for me.   
Matchup‑wise, I think we are both good players.  
   
 Q.   Have you played each other a lot?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   No.   She trains out in Carson, so we don't get to practice much.   But I played her last year in Charleston and then a couple years ago in Indian Wells.   We split the two.  
   
 Q.   So it's even?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Uh‑huh.   
   
 Q.   What advice was your coaching giving you when he came onto the courts?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Play up the middle.   I mean, it was so windy that just trying to do anything with the ball was tough.   If I tried to keep it low, you know, it would go wide and whatnot.  
So he was just telling me to play up the middle, try and, you know, put a little more pop on your ball up the middle and make her hit winners, make her hit winners through the wind.  
But he also reminded me that she's playing really well, so just try to stay in there, try to stay positive, use the out‑wide serves, try to take her off the court, go to the open court, and then, if not, then go up the middle.  
   
 Q.   Will you come back again to Eastbourne?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Of course.   I love this place (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Even if they make you play through a cloud?   
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Yeah, even if.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT