AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2013
Jamie Hampton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. HAMPTON/L. Safarova
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You ran that pretty close. 
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Not like the French, though.   The French was a lot closer.

Q.   How does it feel to be the first American in 10 years to reach the semis here?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   I am? 

Q.   Capriati, 2003.   The last one. 
JAMIE HAMPTON:   What year?   Oh, ten years.   Bad math. 
It's nice.   I mean, I don't know what else to say.

Q.   Were you surprised with yourself this week?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   No.   I think I'm playing good tennis.

Q.   You seemed a little bit tense at times.   Did you sort of feel it with the conditions and the like?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Yeah, I was a little worked up today, actually, showed a little more emotion than I like.
The conditions were tough.   We were basically playing in a cloud.   There was so much moisture in the air, and the court was slick so I was having a hard time with my footing and my movements.   That was definitely bothering me a little bit.

Q.   Your ball toss seemed to trouble you a little bit, as well, at times. 
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Yeah, I mean, my ball toss is a little bit crazy as it is and something that I have been working on.

Q.   Why were you more amped up today than other matches prior?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Just because my footing was bad and I felt like I couldn't really get a good grip on the court.

Q.   Is this the closest you are to your first singles title?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   I don't know.   I still have two matches to go.   Got two tough opponents coming up.   I take one match at a time.   I mean, I even have to, so... 

Q.   What did you make of the conditions out there today?   Were they okay?   We have had a few mixed verdicts whether it was too wet. 
JAMIE HAMPTON:   I thought it was really slippery, especially in the green.   I slipped twice.   Tried not to take too much with me, but yeah.   (Smiling.)
I don't know if I would have played.   I mean, but the conditions were the same for her and obviously she stayed on her feet. 

Q.   You're playing well at the minute.   Is this your best tennis you have come across?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   I don't think so.   I think that I'm playing good, solid tennis but I don't think I'm anywhere near my best.   I think I'm, as a player, developing, as well.   But I am playing good tennis.

Q.   You're up to the No. 3 American when the rankings come out on Monday. 
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Really? 

Q.   Yeah.   You'll be behind Serena and Sloane.   Thoughts on that and kind of what your year has been like to get there.   You don't have that much to defend over the summer, either. 
JAMIE HAMPTON:   I mean, it's definitely one of my goals to improve my ranking, because I didn't have too many points to defend. 
I mean, it's nice to see results like that, because when you put in all your hard work, you don't really know when you're going to have results, and you don't really know even if you're doing the right thing, just going in, putting in the work, and hoping and trusting that they will come.   So it is really nice.

Q.   What about being the No. 1 American? 
JAMIE HAMPTON:   The goal is to be No. 1 in the world.   If you don't really have that goal, then why play? 

Q.   Do you get distracted by some of the weird sounds coming from the stand, like echoing sneezes and sounds of bubonic plague sweeping across Eastbourne?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   No, I think that was my third time playing on that court, so I was pretty used to it.   It gets a little bit noisy, especially when they're coming from the match from centre.   So, no, it's not too distracting.

Q.   How are you with kind of when play kind of starts and stops or when there is rain delays.   I know in terms of your warmup it can kind of cause issues, and that's going to be something that comes up, you know, especially at Wimbledon.   Is it ever kind of a stress for you to kind of keep your body warm and your back loose when the schedule kind of gets a little wonky?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   That's a good question.   It can be tough on my back, but it's just something I'm going to have to deal with.   I think that I have gotten better at it and just try to continue to get better at it.   It's a learning experience, as well.

Q.   What kind of guidance were you looking for from your coach today he was out a couple times?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   He was only out once, but he gave me some good advice, a good coaching move.   He just told me that on her next service game, try and move your return position around, because I had just been standing in the same spot and she kept catching me out wide with the slice and then catching me up the T.   So just to move it around and give her a different look and it pulled off, put a little pressure on her, caused a couple of double faults, I think, and I got some more returns in play and caught a good break, got back in the match.

Q.   Talk about your next match.   You could play either Caroline or Makarova, so obviously two very different players in terms of how to approach that. 
JAMIE HAMPTON:   You know, I don't really know how I'm going to approach it yet.   I'm going to try to go out to the match and catch a little bit of it with my coach.

Q.   Do you watch a lot of Caroline like on TV?
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Some.   I have played her in the juniors, and I played Makarova last year in Seoul.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT