AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2013
Jamie Hampton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. HAMPTON/A. Radwanska
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   She doesn't like playing you.   
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Yeah.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Why do you think you match up so well against her?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   That's a good question.   One of my old coaches used to throw all kinds of things at me.   He used to throw dropshots, used to throw ‑‑he would junk‑ball me.   He would hit hard.   He would do so many different things and also try to get under my skin with his attitude, and, you know, just give me a lot of different looks.   
I had to learn how to adjust and how to, you know, how to compete with that when I was younger.   So I think that that really is the thing that helps me the most when I play her.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you did well today?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   I think I served well, and I think in the big moments I came up with good shots.   I think in the second set when I was up 4‑1 she held, and then when ‑‑she had a break point to break me back at 4‑3.   I had a good serve and a good first strike forehand off the court.   
I think just little plays like that.   Well, not little.   But they came at good times, you know.   I played the important points well.  
   
 Q.   Were you concerned when you served for the first set, she broke you, she then had a set point.   Were you concerned at all?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   I was a little rattled, yeah.   (Smiling.)  
Last time we played, something similar happened, as well.   So I have been in this situation before.   It was a little bit like deja vu.   
This time I was just, you know, mentally tough and I was like, I'm not going to crack.   I'm going to hold and get to a tiebreak.   
   
 Q.   I think this was your sixth grass match already.   
JAMIE HAMPTON:   This season?   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   So in terms of making the transition from clay to the grass, how has it been so far?   Obviously the win is great.   How are you feel out there, and do you get the sense that your game is translating well?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Well, it's a little tough on my back, to be honest.   Balls stay a lot lower.   I think that the grass suits my game much better than the clay.  
You know, a lot of people ‑‑I have never played on grass.   Last year at Wimbledon was my first match, and everyone told me that, you know, you're going to have a ton of fun on grass.   Your game translates well.   You're going to be able to come forward and take balls out of the air.  
I'm having a ton of fun on the grass, to be honest.  
   
 Q.   Can you look back on ‑‑obviously 2013 has been pretty incredible.   So when you look back on it, is there a single match that you can look back and say whether you won or lost that was the one that gave you the confidence to be able to pull off these top 10, top 5 wins?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Um, I think the Azarenka match just because, you know, I had such a great offseason, and I was able to bring my game out and compete against the best in the world.  
And even though I didn't come out on the winning end of it, just to have the belief, okay, I am on the right track, this is the right thing, and even though you didn't win today, you know, you still can compete with them and you can beat them.  
So probably if there had to be one match, it had to be that one.  
   
 Q.   You came through qualifying, got hosed a little bit getting the top seed even though you were the top seed there.   Are you looking at the draws now and saying, like, I'm excited to take on this challenge as opposed to like Oh, my goodness, I've kind of got screwed by the draw a little bit?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Absolutely.   When I found out the qualifying spots, you know, I told my coach, I want to play Radwanska, I hope I draw her, because, one, we have never played on grass and she's beaten me the last four times.   I want to have the opportunity to play her again and make sure I come out on top.   
I have been close before, but, you know, it's nice to come out with a win today.  
   
 Q.   How is Twitter going?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   Eh, it's all right.  
   
 Q.   Who talked you into it?  
JAMIE HAMPTON:   No one, actually.   I was just like, you know, might give it a try.  
   
 Q.   Madison is peeved that you got on Twitter before she did.   
JAMIE HAMPTON:   She will deal with it.   That's fine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT