SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2021
Shakira Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Ole Miss 69, Arkansas 60
 THE MODERATOR:   We will take questions for Shakira.
 Q. How does it feel to go there and upset Arkansas and live to fight another day?
 SHAKIRA AUSTIN:   It definitely feels great.  We told the team going into this game we just need to focus on this dub and worry about the rest, don't worry about the past.  We took that into how we played today.  We really just executed, did what we were supposed to do.  The first game wasn't really how we were supposed to play.  It wasn't Ole Miss basketball.
 Just knowing we needed to fix that, get back to our principles, is really how we were going to win the game.
 Q. You've seen Tennessee already this season.  It was a close game.  Your thoughts on facing them tomorrow night?
 SHAKIRA AUSTIN:   Yeah, I think Coach mentioned we really just need to finish it off.  We were up pretty much on that team.  We just needed, like I said, to do what we do, dictate on defense, do what we do on the offensive end.  I think that will really help us get the dub tomorrow.
 Q. After the Kentucky game, Coach said she felt like the team had really been riding your back for several games, really putting a lot on you.  Did you feel that way?  What kind of contributions are you seeing from everybody else right now?
 SHAKIRA AUSTIN:   Yeah, I definitely felt like my team, they weren't really believing too much that we would be able to win.  I think that's what was stopping us from finishing out a lot of the games.  The fact that they're showing up, they're coming out with confidence, it really means a lot.
 I can't do it on my own, and they know it.  I can't do it without them.  The fact they're showing up in big-time game, especially my freshmen, I'm just really proud of them and how they played today.
 Q. Coach said she was particularly proud of the way you led tonight.  When did you feel comfortable taking over as a leader of this team?  When do you think it started clicking for the whole team?
 SHAKIRA AUSTIN:   I pretty much felt like I was a leader coming in here, just coming from a championship program, just bringing that mentality itself.  It really benefited the team.
 Once I hit March, it really just changed the mentality.  I've been stepping up a lot more than I was in the regular season.  They've been really following behind me, so...
 THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for joining us.  We'll see you tomorrow.
 SHAKIRA AUSTIN:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT