WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2010
Philipp Petzschner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/P. Petzschner
  6-4, 4-6, 6-7, 6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can we analyze first. 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: Yeah, tough to analyze right now. I'm pretty sad a little bit pissed off of myself that I couldn't hold the focus after he had the injury timeout. I don't know what happened there.

 Q. Your timeout or... 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No, his timeout. Yeah, it was pretty clever, I think. Right now I'm not happy. This will maybe come tomorrow or in two days. 
 Right now I'm just pissed off and sad that I lost the match.

 Q. Are you suggesting there might have been a bit of gamesmanship involved there?
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: I cannot say this. You have to ask him what it was. But I didn't feel any difference afterwards or before. 
 So he was -- I thought he was moving great. I only could say if I would be injured like this once I would be happy. No, but I don't know. Maybe he had something. Maybe it was just a clever part to take a timeout there. 
 I don't know. He played really good, really solid the whole time. I had two really good sets, but I couldn't keep the level up till the end.
 So he deserved definitely the win.

 Q. Is that the only difference between a player like you and him, that he's clever enough to know when to take a timeout maybe?
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No. I don't assume that he didn't had anything, that there was just a timeout for no reason. I mean, you know that he has problems with his knee all the time. I think he got treatment for his knee again. 
 So I don't assume that he just did to break my rhythm. But that's what happened, and that's mostly my fault. Yeah, that's what I have to work on.

 Q. You were complaining to the referee about the coaching by Rafael with...
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No, I didn't complain.

 Q. No? 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No.

 Q. Did you hear it?
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No, I just heard words, but it could have been "vamos" or whatever. It's anyway tough to hear if you're down on the court, because the whole arena is pretty loud. 
 So I don't know why he gave the warning for or if it was coaching or not. I have absolutely in idea. I can just tell if you are down there, you almost understand nothing from up there, even if they are screaming at you. 
 I think there was no coaching involved. That's what I think.

 Q. Can you explain your game plan?
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: My game plan? (Laughing.) Play crazy. (Laughing.) I don't know. I just tried not to give him any rhythm. Yeah. I had a really bad service game starting off. Yeah, then I played good.

 Q. The reaction of Rafa to the coaching warning was quite strong. Again, sort of gesturing and talking back to the umpire. Did that unsettle you at all?
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No. It's always a question -- I mean, if there was really no coaching, then I maybe would react the same like he did. But you have -- these questions you have to ask him. I mean...

 Q. I'm just asking if it unsettled you. 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No, no. Me, not at all. It was about him, his coach, and the referee. Whatever happened there, I have no idea about.

 Q. But some injury has to be, because he's going to quit Davis Cup. He said that, and we all knew that. He says he's not gonna play anymore until the U.S. season in August. 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: This is still none of my business, to be honest. I don't really care. If he's injured, it's fine. I never said that this was just a timeout to break my rhythm and he wasn't injured. 
 I think he's injured. He always has problems with his knee. Everybody knows it. This question you have to ask him. I don't know if it's bad or not bad.
 I just can tell you how it felt, and it felt like he was still running the same for five sets. And I think he could run another two or three sets, and I couldn't. So that's how it felt on the court and that's how it is. 
 If he's injured, okay. If not, I don't know. Ask him. He's the fittest player on tour. He's moving great around on the court. Yeah. So I have no idea. 

 Q. What, fitter than Mahut? 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: That's a tough question right now. I think so. 

 Q. You think so?
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: Well, I have no...

 Q. Any thoughts on the match tomorrow, or you're not into football? 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: Um, that's a good question. I think we win 3-Love. Easy. (Laughter.)

 Q. Would that raise your spirits at all after today, or have no impact? 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No, definitely I invited a couple of Germans who are still here. I have a house up in Wimbledon Village. We're all going to watch soccer tomorrow, have a nice barbecue, and cheer for Germany. 
 And if the English, if they don't cheat at us, we should win, I think. Because the last ten times we won. 

 Q. If they don't cheat? Are you talking about '66? 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: Could be. 

 Q. I think it's gonna a miserable weekend for you double time then, huh? 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: I don't think so. I have faith in our players in South Africa.

 Q. What was wrong with your leg? I couldn't quite tell from the stands. 
 PHILIPP PETZSCHNER: No, I had already hip problem in Madrid. Yeah. So I had it also after Halle, but that's why I took a week off. It just comes and goes. The problem is it came back after I was sitting there for four or five minutes. Like my muscles were getting little bit cold, I was getting little bit stiff, and so I felt it again.
 But I think it didn't change anything. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT