MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2019
Stacie Terry
Téa Adams
Sophia Ramos
Najé Murray
Baylee Vanderdoes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








San Diego State - 70, New Mexico - 61 (OT)
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by San Diego State head coach Stacie Terry and student-athletes Najé Murray, Sophia Ramos, Téa Adams and Baylee Vanderdoes.  Coach, an opening statement.
COACH TERRY: What a fun game to watch.  The Mountain West has so much talent, and we don't always get the credit that we deserve.  But we were able to outlast a very good New Mexico team that gave us everything that they had.
Just a really fun game to be a part of and coach in, and really proud of our young ladies for executing what we've been working so hard on down the stretch.
Q. Give us your thoughts on what it meant to win a game here in Las Vegas?
BAYLEE VANDERDOES: It felt great.  The past two years that we've been here we didn't get past the first round.  So this meant a lot to me and a lot of the upperclassmen.
We were just ready.  We believed in ourselves from the beginning.  And it was just the fact that we were able to produce and we put all of our scout together, our hard work together and we all came together, and especially in an overtime moment we were able to come up with a win and it was very well-deserved.
TÉA ADAMS: I think it just feels amazing to have all of our hard work this year finally pay off.  Our coach always says that we're made for this.  So I think that we really believed it tonight and we put everything together, and it just came out our way.
And I'm really excited and awesome -- and I'm awesome.  (Laughter) I mean, it's just an awesome feeling.  So, yeah.
SOPHIA RAMOS: It doesn't feel real yet.  I think a lot of us thought we could do it.  I just think a lot of our hard work has finally paid off.  We're a young group.  And so I think just seeing how well our chemistry is and how well we're playing right now is just a really big reason on why we're being so successful at the right time.
NAJÉ MURRAY: It's the time of the year where it's will over anything else.  We know them like the back of their hand and they don't know us the same way.  It was grit.  It was effort.  It was making plays at the end, and then we made plays top to bottom.  Everyone who stepped on our court for us made a play at the right time.  And I think that's what matters at this time of the year and this time of the game.
Q. Coach, you talked about last night you felt like you played New Mexico tough and you had a little confidence going in this game.  I thought I saw it in your players.  Is that what you saw?
COACH TERRY: Right.  Even in the Pit, we went down there and it was a close one.  So they felt really confident going in, as they do against anybody in the conference.  We talked a lot about we respect everybody, but we're not playing with any fear at this point.
New Mexico does a lot of things well.  And we really focused in on slowing some of those perimeter players down and not letting them shoot the 3-ball as well as they normally do.
And again, you can't contain Nunn because she's such a good player.  We did our best to make sure she didn't get anything easy.  Really proud of Baylee and Mallory Adams who did a good job containing their players.
Q. Coach Bradbury talked about you guys own the boards and they feel they're a pretty good rebounding team.  Was there something you did special for that?
COACH TERRY: This is "want to," this is will.  My pregame speech was talking about how special things happen in March and to live without regret.  And what it was going to take was commitment on both sides of the ball.
And I thought we were committed to rebounding tonight more than we ever have.  They don't realize that now this is the standard, guys.  So we need to rebound like this all the time.  But they were committed to making sure they only got one shot, and I think that was a crucial part of the game, is we got stops down the stretch when we needed to.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT