TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2007
Matt Hendrix
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  Matt Hendrix, thanks for spending a few moments with us here at the interview room of the Turning Stone Resort Championship.  Back-to-back 67's.  10 under par through two rounds.  As it stands now you're in second place.  Talk to us about how you've been playing.   
 MATT HENDRIX:  The year itself hasn't been too good.  But this week has been spectacular so far.  I had three weeks off during the playoffs, so did a little thinking.  Kind of looked at the year so far what I've done right, what I've done wrong and where I need to go with my game.   
 So I've started working with Todd Anderson down at Sea Island.  And just a little bit of adjustment on the full swing, you know, it's starting to pay off.  Did a little short game work, and that's been the main thing.  My chipping and putting has been a lot, lot better, and it's starting to show here.   
 STEWART MOORE:  I assume you're looking forward to this fall series, and maybe getting in the mode of playing week in and week out and starting to get in a rhythm your rookie year?   
 MATT HENDRIX:  Yeah, absolutely.  You know, it's nice to play six or seven in a row.  You know, it was a while before I even got to play three in a row this year.  So, hopefully, we can just continue to work on the same things each week, and hopefully by the end of the year it's really clicking.   
 STEWART MOORE:  When you were in college, you were a big time player at Clemson University, as a lot of people know there are a lot of Clemson alumni out here.  Is it frustrating out here your rookie year, and you're great friends with all these guys?  You're playing a lot of golf with them and you're going through a struggle, and they've reached a lot of that level?  You're Clemson guys, but you want to get up there with them and compete week in and week out.   
 MATT HENDRIX:  No, it's not frustrating at all.  Because I know how good they are.  And they've been out here.  They've been through what I've been through.  Perfect example is Lucas Glover.  President's Cup this year, but his first year on tour he didn't keep his card.  And had to go back to Q-school, and retained his card and the very next year won.   
 So they've all been through what I'm going through right now.  You know, Charles Warren, I don't think he had that great of a first year on PGA Tour.  But now he's pretty much a mainstay out here.  He's figured out a way to consistently play well each week.   
 It's a learning process, and they've all been through it.  It's nice to have them out here.  I can throw a little frustration at them, and they can give me some advice, but it's nice to have them out here.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Before you get into your round, speaking of Clemson, we have a local guy, David May from Auburn, New York.   
 MATT HENDRIX:  Yeah, absolutely.   
  
  Q.  Who is now playing for Clemson.  How does that program prepare so damn many players to get out on this Tour?   
 MATT HENDRIX:  You know, if I had to say one thing it's when I got there, it was understood that the team was going to win.  That's what we went to a tournament to do.  Second was frustrating.  Second was unacceptable.   
 We did whatever it was to prepare for the courses coming up and prepare ourselves for each tournament.  And you know, it was a winning tradition starting back in the '80s when Coach Bentley started coaching.  He turned it around and brought an attitude to that program that, you know what, we're not just here to have fun.  We do have fun, but you're there to win.  You prepare to win.   
  
  Q.  In that sense just as a follow-up, I mean, the depth of the team this year with Kyle Stanley and all the way down to Sam Saunders.  They just reload every year.  Just to play varsity, just to be one of the top five guys has got to be a competition as much of a grind as almost you get out here.  Do you see somewhat of a comparison just having to be on?   
 MATT HENDRIX:  Versus playing out here and competing for a spot at Clemson?   
  
  Q.  Yeah, just having to be on?   
 MATT HENDRIX:  It's a little different.  I've found professional golf to be a lot different than Clemson.  Everybody has their own opinion.  I think it's kind of different stress levels.   
 When I got there, there was a lot of good talent.  And, you know, you find yourself your first year at Clemson, I found myself just trying to make the squad.  You know, during the qualifiers kind of like out here in the beginning of the year, I was just trying to make cuts and that doesn't help.   
 You soon learn, like I was saying earlier, you don't play just to make cuts or just to make the team.  You play to win.  As soon as you started doing that in college, it really helped out.  Made the traveling squad, and just got better and better each year.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Just as a note - in the south Clemson's referred to as the factory, because they pretty much reload every single year.   
 MATT HENDRIX:  He's done a really good job.  And we're working on some practice facilities right now.  Couple new greens and a new driving range and the clubhouse for the guys.  So, you know, I see the program getting better and better.   
 Jonathan Byrd's brother, Jordan Byrd is now the assistant coach there, so got a lot going for him.   
  
  Q.  Golf just announced that it's going to do the drug testing in the spring.  Do you think it's necessary, and does it bother you at all?   
 MATT HENDRIX:  Doesn't bother me at all.  I've heard every opinion.  But personally, I don't think it's necessary.  I find it hard to believe that anyone would try to use performance enhancing drugs out here on the PGA Tour.  Just to pick up another ten yards or so, that really doesn't help your score in my opinion.  But other people do believe that they need to test.   
 I personally don't think that we need it.  And it doesn't bother me at all.  They can test all they want.  But I just hate that it's come to golf now.   
 STEWART MOORE:  If you could just briefly go through your birdies and the clubs used on those holes.   
 MATT HENDRIX:  Number 4, just a driver, hit a big driver right down the right side.  Perfect lob wedge distance, made it easy for distance control.  Just hit it about I'd say 5 or 6 feet.  And then the next hole hit driver, hybrid right on the front fringe, a simple two-putt.   
 8, drove it in the left rough, but had a good enough lie to put a hybrid on it, and just kind of hit a tumbler down the fairway and just kept rolling and rolling to 15 yards short of the green.  It's just from where that pin is today it's a straight uphill chip, you just put it in front of the green.   
 I got all the par 5's.  Got both the par 5's on the back.  18, I had hit 9-iron in, and hit a really good shot and made about a 10 or 12-footer.   
 12, put it right on the front fringe, too, front left pin.  You can probably see some of the eagles out there today.  And then 14 - 14, yeah, perfect drive right down the middle.  And another perfect lob wedge distance.  Hit it in there about a foot or two.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Matt, great play and good luck this weekend.   
 MATT HENDRIX:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT