SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2012
Jasmine Hassell
Jasmine James
Andy Landers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Georgia head coach Andy Landers, Jasmine James and Jasmine Hassell. 
COACH LANDERS:   In my opinion the game was kind of the way that we thought that it would be.   It would be played hard and defensive.   Both teams I thought did a reasonably good job of defending the other.   At the end of the day our inability to keep the deep penetration, whether it be on the dribble or on the pass with a post, ultimately it led to fouls which I think decided the basketball game. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Coach, you were down six, but you got back in it.   Talk about what you were doing defensively to get the game going. 
COACH LANDERS:   Just getting stops and rebounds.   Earlier in the game we got some stops, but we didn't get rebounds.   We got stops and rebounds, came down to the other end of the floor.   J.J. and Meredith made a couple plays.   Hassell made a play late. 
But basically got stops, which is what you have to do when you're behind.   Then when we got it to the end of the floor, we were able to make plays. 
But South Carolina dictated the game.   They drove it with their defense.   They dictated how the game would be played. 

Q.   Out‑rebounding South Carolina, the biggest difference on the score sheet is their points off the bench.   How do you take this and use this to boost you through the NCAA tournament?
COACH LANDERS:   Well, the bench points are misleading because they have a short‑term starter.   They start a kid, a player, about 10 minutes a game, then the real starter comes in off of the bench. 
But your point is a good one.   We out‑rebound them.   We shoot better than they do from the field.   We do some good things statistically.   But at the end of the day it was their spirit that won the basketball game.   They pressured us and I think at times their defensive pressure affected us.   When we were on defense, we weren't as willing to play as hard as we needed to play to keep some things from happening. 
But as we go forward, hopefully you learn from mistakes.   But unfortunately for us, these are reoccurring mistakes.   You look at that board.   The people that didn't have offensive rebounds haven't been going to the board all year.   The people that haven't got offensive rebounds haven't got them all year. 
The learning, I don't know if it will kick in before we go to the NCAA tournament or not. 

Q.   For the players, just talk about the closeness of the games you had against South Carolina this year.   Did you expect a close matchup? 
COACH LANDERS:   Oh, yeah.   It was a great game in Columbia, hard‑fought much like tonight.   Points about the same, just reversed. 
We shot the ball a little bit better.   We missed some pretty good shots, especially early in the game.   But the game was the way you thought, the way I kind of thought that it would be played. 
JASMINE JAMES:   I would definitely say it was what we expected.   We knew going into the game that it would be a tough game because South Carolina is always a pretty tough team. 
We always match up pretty well with them.   We know every time we're going to play them it's going to be a really good game.   They have really good guards as well as a really good inside game, despite the fact that they're considered to be undersized. 
We knew going in it would be close and we would be fighting the whole game.   So there wasn't anything that we didn't expect. 
JASMINE HASSELL:   Same as J.J. and Coach Landers said.   We knew it was going to be a hard, tough game.   It's always a hard, tough game against South Carolina. 

Q.   What is your goal to do to motivate your team through the NCAA tournament?   How do you take this tonight and learn from it and help your team move forward? 
JASMINE JAMES:   I would definitely say every night is a learning experience.   Whether it's a win or a loss, you're going to learn something from it or take something from it. 
Throughout the whole year, constantly rebounding, defense.   We know what our key things are, that we need to focus on. 
Every game is a learning experience.   You kind of get to say, Okay, well, tonight where did we do good, where did we not do so well at, where do we need to improve?   You get to take those things and move on as well as try to use those things as motivation to get better. 
We can take the things that were not so good as well as the things that were good and try to improve upon those things before the NCAA tournament. 
JASMINE HASSELL:   I agree with J.J.   I think every game is a learning experience.   We just have to capitalize on the things we did right and the things we did bad and make sure we improve them for the tournament. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, ladies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT