ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 15, 2018
Jess Watkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New Zealand - 144/6, Pakistan - 90   
 Q.  What's the journey been like, especially in the first World Cup for you?  
JESS WATKIN: Yeah, it's been pretty challenging the first game against India.  But yeah, no, I love it, and yeah, the team just really supports me and are right behind me, so yeah.   
 Q.  How do you like bowling on this wicket?  
JESS WATKIN: Yeah, it's pretty cool, exciting.  You never know what it's going to do, whether it's going to turn or stay low, so yeah, it's real nice to bowl with.   
 Q.  Finishing the tournament on a high, what's next for New Zealand?  
JESS WATKIN: I think we've got a tour against India in New Zealand, so that will be quite exciting, as well.   
 Q.  What do you think was the turning point of the match?  
JESS WATKIN: I think when we got Dar out, I think we definitely had a chance then, and yeah.   
 Q.  Were there any nerves there in the innings break because of the sort of collapse towards the end of the innings?  
JESS WATKIN: No, I think we just kind of put it behind us and just bowled like -- just focused on our bowling and really went hard out there.   
 Q.  You're known for your big hitting back home, but have you ever worked on your bowling?  Have you always been a bowler?  
JESS WATKIN: Yeah, I've always been a bowler.  About five years ago I changed to spin, so still learning the ways.   
 Q.  You were a little nervous coming into this game considering your last three games haven't been great with the bat?  
JESS WATKIN: Yeah, no, it was -- yeah, the last few games haven't been too good, but I think we kind of worked hard at training and came out and gave our all today, so yeah.   
 Q.  Let's talk about the batting.  You're clearly used as a bit of a pinch-hitter in the team.  Are you comfortable in that role?  
JESS WATKIN: Yeah, pretty comfortable, but it hasn't really paid off for me lately.  But yeah, I really like that role.   
 Q.  How much do you learn from people like Suzie Bates and Sophie Devine who are big hitters of the game?  
JESS WATKIN: Yeah, I learn a lot from them, just being at training with them, and they help me out.   
Yeah, every day is a learning day for me here, so yeah, they are pretty special people.   
 Q.  You I believe just received a contract, but before that, aside from cricket, what do you do?  
JESS WATKIN: I was studying for a bit, and then kind of put that on hold for a little bit and do a bit of coaching back at home.  Yeah, other than that, just cricket really.   
 Q.  Apart from the game, to get to know the players better, tell us maybe why your shirt number is the number it is.  
JESS WATKIN: So when I was younger, I used to play hockey, and that was my first ever shirt that I wore, and so I've just always had it from then.   
But it's pretty special because I get to share the same number.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT