NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SENATORS v SABRES
May 11, 2007
Ray Emery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talking about the first two periods last night, I don't know if you noticed it from your perspective, but the coach said that he wasn't very happy with the first two periods and the third period goaltender a little better.  Did you get a sense of that at all from your perspective?   
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah, we played good in certain aspects of our game.  The first two periods as well, I think especially penalty killing and, you know, obviously buried two goals in the first, so it wasn't that bad.   
 But definitely, you know, some things in the game plan that he pointed out we weren't doing them, taking the bodies as much as we wanted to or getting pucks deep sometimes, little things like that.  I definitely think the third period was better.   
  
  Q.  You had 20 shots overall.  Is it easier than you thought it was going to be?   
 RAY EMERY:  No, you don't really know what to expect.  It all kind of depends on how the game plays out.  You know, they had 20 shots, but they're able to make them tricky, and you got to be aware of that.   
  
  Q.  On a lighter note, just talk a little bit about Buffalo.  It's been all over talk radio here.  What are you going to do while you're here?  Have you found anything fun to do here?   
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah.  I don't know.  It's playoff time, so just kind of resting and eating and stuff like that.  Nothing too crazy.  I might go to Niagara Falls, check out the casino.   
  
  Q.  Did you get your care package from Niagara Falls yet?  They were going to send you a care package of things to do and places to go.   
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah.  No, I haven't got that.  I'd be nervous opening anything that people send me from here (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Anything particular you want to eat while you're here?  Not your first time here, obviously.   
 RAY EMERY:  No.  Not my first time here.  No, nothing really in particular.  I don't know.  Buffalo wings are good.  That's always good.   
  
  Q.  That's about the highlight of it all, huh?   
 RAY EMERY:  I never said it was really bad.  Said there were more things to do on a day off in Manhattan.   
  
  Q.  About the person you are, the perception we have you're an original, can you say that?  Is that a wrong perception, or you like to be that - you're not how would I say typical, the average hockey player.  You have your personality.  Can we say that?   
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah.  I agree with that, I guess.  I don't know if I'm that wacky, but yeah, I guess I'm - I stand out from the crowd a little bit and don't mind it.   
  
  Q.  Younger, were you always like that as a kid?  You like to be focused?   
 RAY EMERY:  A bit, yeah.   
  
  Q.  What about that story in Carolina last year?  You know what I'm talking about?  With Alfie?   
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Was it good?   
 RAY EMERY:  It wasn't that bad.  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  And this year, I mean, Bryan was saying earlier that him and the goalie coach, they like to challenge you.  They won't do it all the time, but do you feel that you like that?  So are you someone who likes a challenge, you like that, you need to be challenged?   
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah, I think so.  The more odds that are stacked against you, the bigger the challenge, the better it feels when you accomplish something, you know.  Definitely it motivates you, kind of rise to the occasion if you have a big challenge in front of you.   
  
  Q.  You feel you're there now, you're the No. 1 one goalie of the Senators, you made it, that nobody can have any doubt about you anymore?   
 RAY EMERY:  You know, I didn't have very many doubts about myself in the past, and I still think that you have to continue to play well all the time, because as much as people can tell you how good you are, that one second can turn around in a hurry.  So you can't get ahead of yourself.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT