NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
May 29, 2007
Ray Emery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Ray, having a night to sleep on last night's game, do you feel like maybe you're not quite as far off as the 3-2 final score and maybe you guys are right there with these guys and maybe just a couple adjustments and you'll be back in? 
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah, that's what I thought last night.  We made a lot of mistakes.  And definitely it didn't play our type of game.  And still gave ourselves a chance to win and still - in most cases when we have a lead going in the third we do win. 
 So if we correct even some of the mistakes, we're looking pretty good.  But we want to definitely correct a lot of those mistakes and we're not short of confidence.  If we correct those mistakes, we're going to come out on top. 

 Q.  Ray, your coach thinks they were hacking and slashing and whacking at you a bit.  Did you feel like there was more going on than what you see from the three previous opponents in the playoffs? 
 RAY EMERY:  Not really.  Maybe Jersey didn't whack that much.  But the other teams were whacking.  And you kind of expect it.  But at the same time they gotta make calls sometimes because it can get out of hand. 

 Q.  As soon as the game went into the last and you realize how this team played, was it a case of, hey, you can't get back on the ice soon enough because you're really your own worst enemies and as well as the Ducks may have played, that this team likely played their worst playoff game in the post-season? 
 RAY EMERY:  No, I think you need the day to correct the mistakes.  You need to - we watched it for ourselves today.  And when you're out there, it feels like you're doing everything you can.  When you watch it, you watch the mistakes you make and a day off gives you a chance to become aware of those and figure out a way to do it right the next time. 

 Q.  You've talked before about how in a different hockey world you might be an enforcer-type player.  In a joking way.  In a game like that, with that much hitting going on, they're taking the edge in the hitting, is it sometimes frustrating you can't go out and participate a little bit more in the physical part of that game? 
 RAY EMERY:  I like that part of the game.  But not hitting - I like fighting.  There's no fighting in the playoffs.  No, I'm content just kicking pucks back there.  I'm all right. 

 Q.  Boxing analogy, taking their best punch and then coming back at them, how frustrating do you think that will be for them? 
 RAY EMERY:  I mean, things can turn around real quick.  We're not happy with our game last night.  We're down 1-0, but all of a sudden you win Game 2 and you got the split in their building, and that's a good situation to be in.  So we just gotta take care of business Game 2. 

 Q.  How did you feel you played personally in the first game? 
 RAY EMERY:  I felt good.  But I made mistakes and I gotta correct them.  I played as hard as I could.  But some mental things.  I'm definitely going to correct those. 
 But I felt pretty good all in all. 

 Q.  What was said in the locker room?  Anything need to be said going into Game 2?  You're aware of the scenario? 
 RAY EMERY:  Nothing needs to be said.  Guys we've got, we're a proud group and I think that the leaders on our team can kind of feel things out and know if the guys need to be yelled at, if the guys need to be encouraged, if the guys need whatever. 
 So the core group of guys that do that type of thing usually set the right mood in there.  So today was just a situation where we went over the film and kind of looked at the things we're going to correct tomorrow.  And I'm sure those guys will be getting guys prepared.  Not that anyone really needs to - I think our team has been good at coming back and staying focused. 

 Q.  Ray, talking with other people about the Getzlaf goal in particular, where in one breath somebody will say what a great move it was by Getzlaf, but the next breath say that they felt you should have stopped it, what was your opinion on that goal? 
 RAY EMERY:  Both.  That's the kind of a move that surprises a goalie.  But at the same time, guy's at a bad angle coming down the wing.  I stopped it nine out of ten times.  It's just something that you don't kind of expect in that situation.  And I hope he tries again. 

 Q.  When I asked you about hacking and whacking, you said they've got to call some of that stuff, I think that's what you said.  Did you feel that there was stuff that went uncalled and did you feel there were some loose pucks that there could have been a whistle but they allowed it to just keep going on and on? 
 RAY EMERY:  Well, for the most part it evens out, that we've bumped into their goalie sometimes in a different series, stuff like that.  It evens out.  I'm not too concerned about that.  Last night there was one kind of in particular, point where I had the puck but I didn't realize it even. 

 Q.  On the May one and Pahlsson? 
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah, McDonald ended up - I had it and then it - no whistle went, so I kind of opened up and it came out of me and the guy poked it through and I covered it again, whatever.  If I don't know I have it, how is the ref supposed to know?  So you can't blame them.  But I thought that should have been a whistle. 
 FRANK BROWN:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT