GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Jordan Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you look at just your own development, a lot of young guys, what do you think the potential is for that group?  
JORDAN BELL: I think we could be really good.  Obviously the talent we have as far as like the younger guys, like I was in the gym and all with Loon all summer.  We've been working out the whole summer.  We've definitely improved a lot.  I think every year we keep getting better, roles keep expanding, just keep developing as players.   
 Q.  How do you make up for the fact you guys lost some veterans in the locker room?  
JORDAN BELL: I mean, just take what we learned from them last year on the court and off the court, just being a pro.  There is a new rookie this year, Jacob Evans, so trying to instill the stuff that David West and JaVale instilled in me, stuff like that.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how you plan to embrace potentially having a much bigger role here in year two?  And how do you think you've developed potentially into a more complete player?  
JORDAN BELL: I'm definitely ready for a bigger role.  But I think the work I put in this summer will shine during the season.  What was the second part of the question?   
 Q.  How do you expect to be a more complete player?  
JORDAN BELL: Just not making so many mistakes, like I did last year, defensively and offensively.  I have a year under my belt now, so I kind of know how things are ran as far as like our team.  And then also with other players, just keep trying to memorize people's scouting reports, take away tendencies, things like that.   
 Q.  Once the title had been won and you were done celebrating like everybody else, how did you approach this summer as opposed to last summer knowing what you did when you came in and knowing what's required of you now?  
JORDAN BELL: I definitely posted totally different because last year, like you said, I didn't know what to expect.  This year I knew exactly when we were going to start, how things were ran, what our practices are going to be like, and things like changing my body, getting stronger, faster, quicker, and just trying to develop as a player all around.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to talk to Pat and what that's like for him this summer, even up to this point not knowing where he's going to be?  
JORDAN BELL: I talked to him, it was me and my friends, I knew this is probably something he didn't want to talk about.  So I didn't bring it up; he didn't bring it up.  We talked about our life, girlfriends, friends, how to keep them happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT