AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 2, 2021
Gina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. How was it?
 GINA KIM:   Obviously it's Augusta National so pretty amazing.  Just a little chilly for my preference but no, it was really amazing.  I had a lot of fun.
 Q. How was it?
 GINA KIM:   Pretty tough.  There was a lot of interesting things I found out there.  I think that's what makes this place so special.  Like some of the putts and chips, you can't go straight for the hole.  You've got to kind of take a u-turn almost and find new, creative ways to get there.  I thought it was fun.
 Q. Any in particular?
 GINA KIM:   The par 3, the one where you skip the ball over the pond, 16, that's an interesting hole, oh, my God.  I mean, that was the first time I've ever skipped a ball across the water, so I found that pretty fun.  But kind of learning how to use the slopes to your advantage, I think that's a pretty notable example of that.
 I think in general, this course, you have to be really creative and I think that's kind of what makes this place very special and very distinct and unique in its own way.
 Q. How did the skipping go?
 GINA KIM:   I almost got it there.  I was pretty successful.  It just hit the bank and kind of came back but for a first timer I thought it was pretty good.
 Q. Creativity, is that a strength of yours?
 GINA KIM:   I would say so, yes.  Just on a normal day of practice, I like to hit shots, cuts, low fades, hooks around the trees or something.  I love doing those type of things and I sometimes have contests with my friends.  So I don't know, I think it's definitely playing towards my game because I'm a very feel-oriented person.  So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
 Q. You have a little bit of chasing to do.  What do you think it's going to take tomorrow?
 GINA KIM:   A lot of patience.  I think that's what this place requires and this event, too.  Yesterday it may not seem like it, but like my round was a bit of a roller coaster.  But I only hit nine greens yesterday and no bogeys.
 So I think just kind of staying patient and waiting for an opportunity to come, I think that will be key for me to kind of find my way on top of the leaderboard.
 Q. When you're playing those two days at Champions Retreat, how much were you thinking top 30 to compete on Saturday and how much were you thinking about your position on the leaderboard and how is that different from other tournaments you play?
 GINA KIM:   Yeah, I did think about it at the beginning, but I realized that's just something that's out of my control.  Two years ago, I missed the cut, so I've realized, you know, you might as well enjoy it while you can and just kind of let it deal with itself.  And like I said, just staying patient out there.  That was my No. 1 goal.  So I think it paid off a lot.
 Q. Coming back here --
 GINA KIM:   Yeah, I think it was 2015 when I came here for the Drive, Chip & Putt Championship.  So obviously I'm a young teenager girl just hopping around just trying to soak it all in.  That was a pretty amazing experience, as well, for me.
 Coming back to the inaugural Augusta National Women's Amateur, obviously I had high expectations and those expectations were not met, and I was very disappointed.  I spent the two years just preparing myself and trying to work on what I thought were my weakness points.
 I would say that, you know, I really looked around every square inch of that course at Champions Retreat.  So let's just say after missing the cut, I knew what I shouldn't do.  So I learned my lesson pretty well.
 Q. What were your weaknesses?
 GINA KIM:   I was too reckless I think.  I would always just try to go for the hole, and sometimes that's not the play.  Sometimes you need to be satisfied with the pars you make.  And when an opportunity comes around, that's when you take advantage of it.  But just kind of learning how to use the slopes.  I was not as creative back then.  I was just, like I said, just going straight for the hole and if it doesn't go in, then I'd freak out and, yeah, obviously I learned my lesson pretty well.
 Q. How would you rate the level -- after the second round --
 GINA KIM:   I'd say it was pretty high but obviously when you miss the cut, you kind of get a slap in the face but reality and so I just think, you know, although I was disappointed, I tried to take it as a positive and just kind of learn from my mistakes.  I think the best teacher you can have is failures, not meeting your expectations.  Tried to be very objective about it and learn what I need to work on.  I've been working pretty hard the past two years on that.
 Q. Conditions aside, what are the differences in your head playing here two years ago on Friday knowing that was the one round, and today, knowing you play tomorrow and have a chance to win tomorrow, how you went about it and the whole experience?
 GINA KIM:   Yeah, I mean, two years ago, like I said, I wasn't quite as focused or disciplined as I am now I think.  But I mean, because I missed the cut two years ago, I was just pretty much playing -- playing a good round of golf like I was playing with my buddies and not really caring, and today, realize I have to pay attention to what's going on on the course, I told my caddie a couple times, I don't remember that being there.  Just figuring out and learning new, interesting things that I thought wasn't there before but was always there and I wasn't paying attention to it.
 Q. Like what?
 GINA KIM:   Like the slopes.  Like playing off the banks kind of bringing it back.  Or, you know, figuring out the angles coming into the green because back then I was obviously trying to go straight for the holes and see what happens because I was just having the best time of my life.  Now I actually have to be a little more analytical about where I'm trying to go into the greens.
 Q. Still having the best time of your life?
 GINA KIM:   Of course.  I'm just trying to play attention more to the smaller details just fine tuning it.
 Q. How much different is the course playing compared to the last time you were here?
 GINA KIM:   Yeah, I think obviously weather conditions is a huge part.  Two years ago it was really wet, really soggy and so the greens were a lot more receptive.  Now with the wind and colder temperatures, it's keeping the greens pretty crispy.  So you know, it's definitely harder to kind of land it right where you want it and end up in the same place, as well.  I had to readjust some of my landing spots because I realized some of the biggest greens weren't holding.  That's the biggest difference.
 Q. How would you describe the impact on women's golf?
 GINA KIM:   I think Chairman Ridley is amazing to make his vision come to life like that.  It's a huge honor to be a part of that and being part of the inaugural one whether I missed the cut or not was a huge honor to me, and to be a part of history like that is a testament to how far this place has come and how far women's golf can truly go.  I think there's a lot of potential in women's golf because of events like this.
 Q. Where do you rank this on the Amateur schedule?
 GINA KIM:   No. 1.
 Q. Ahead of the Women's Amateur?
 GINA KIM:   To me, yes.
 Q. How come?
 GINA KIM:   You know, Augusta National is such an exclusive, amazing, special place.  As soon as you get on to the property, there's just a special vibe to it and I think just being able to expand this place to women's golf is just really amazing.  I put it as No. 1 in my season.  So it's an honor to be here.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT