U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2018
Gina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know this has been sort of a redemption story for you.  What's your mindset as you walk away?  You kind of ended yourself-described match play curse and you made it to the semifinals of the Girls' Junior.  What do you take away from this week?
GINA KIM: You know, it's definitely been a long week, but it's nice to see that I improved a lot and to see that I matured more as a better golf player.  I think as sad as it is to lose in the semifinals and not being able to make it, I think I definitely learned something, and it's a great learning experience for me.
Q. It seemed like a really competitive match out there, lots of birdies made, and you're playing a really good player in Yealimi.  Just tell me about the match.
GINA KIM: Yeah, Yealimi is a very impressive player.  She was definitely making her birdies out there, especially on the par-5s she was bombing it down, and I'm basically trying to play smart, trying to get those birdies, as well.  But I think I just made a few more mistakes than her, and I think that's what caused me to lose.  But I'm definitely learning from that.  Hopefully I'll come back better than before at the U.S. Women's Am.
Q. You've got two weeks or so until the Women's Am.  Are you looking forward to that?
GINA KIM: Oh, yes, of course.  This will be my second time, so it's not a new thing for me, so I'll definitely practice harder and come back better and be ready to go.
Q. What do you do to prepare for the Women's Am between what you take from here and what do you try to bring into the Golf Club of Tennessee?
GINA KIM: You know, obviously weather conditions are obviously different.  Before that, I'm going to be going up to the Canadian Women's Am for another amateur tournament, but then I have like about a week at home before I go over to Tennessee.  Considering climates are similar, both my hometown and where they have the Am, I'm going to be practicing a lot of what I'm expecting to see, what type of shots I'll probably have to hit.  I'm just going to practice as hard as I can and just be mentally ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT