U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Gina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about how the match evolved.
GINA KIM: You know, I think it was actually pretty close competition at the beginning.  Both of us, we were just sticking it close to the flag, and at that point it was really hard to get any advantage over her because she was playing so amazing.  I think just staying patient as the fog started to come back in, I think just playing it safe, playing it smart was the key, so I think that's how I won.
Q. Can you describe that birdie on 14?
GINA KIM: Well, I think my caddie Brian actually helped me with that one.  I saw Ashley's putt, who was right behind me, and it actually turned out to be a lot slower than I expected, so I just told myself to at least get it to the hole and give it a chance.  It went in, and it actually was unexpected.  I didn't expect that to go in.
Q. How far do you think that putt was?
GINA KIM: Geez, I think when I paced it off, it was like 42 feet.
Q. And the par-3 here, you hit a fantastic bunker shot.  Can you describe that one?
GINA KIM: Oh, yeah.  You know, the pin was in the back.  I had a lot of room to work with.  I felt pretty confident with what I had going on.  I was just telling myself just get it down the hill, just keep it rolling and get it close, just be yourself and you can do it, so it worked.
Q. It's been a long day and a long week.  How do you feel physically?
GINA KIM: Very tired.  Very mentally exhausted and physically exhausted, but I think that's what helps me become a better player, so I'm ready for it.
Q. You reached the round of 16 twice before in this event.
GINA KIM: Yes.
Q. Now you're on to the semifinals.  How do you feel?
GINA KIM: I feel amazing because I thought I was cursed at one point, just sticking around in the round of 16.  But it definitely showed me exactly how much I improved and how much I evolved into a better golfer, and I'm really proud of myself for that.
Q. Your teammate in the Women's Amateur Four-Ball made it to the runner-up in this championship last year.  Have you talked to her at all this week?
GINA KIM: No, I didn't have a chance to talk with her, but I talked with my friend Erica Shepherd, who's the defending champion, and she was actually encouraging me a lot, so I think I'm getting a lot of motivation from that.
Q. I don't think you've been down at all in your match play matches yet.
GINA KIM: Actually I was 1-down on the very first hole.
Q. Today?
GINA KIM: Today, because Ashley hit an amazing shot and made a birdie.  But besides that, no, I haven't been down.
Q. Good feeling?
GINA KIM: Yes, very good feeling.
Q. You have experience in USGA events, but having experience and winning are two different things.  What do you think it'll take to win your next two matches?
GINA KIM: I think it takes a lot of patience, a lot of mental strength, especially with all this fog and the very difficult weather conditions.  I think that's what it's going to take a little extra more than usual to get it done, so that's what I'll be doing for the rest of the week.
Q. Have you ever played in a championship with so many delays?
GINA KIM: No, I haven't.  It's my first time.  So it was a bit hard to get used to.  But I think I'm kind of getting into it.
Q. You're going to face Yealimi Noh in the semifinals.  Do you know her at all?
GINA KIM: Yes, I do.
Q. Have you ever played against her?
GINA KIM: Yes, we have.
Q. Would you say you're friends or is it going to be a tough match to play against someone you know or easier or harder?
GINA KIM: I mean, we are friends, but of course competition is competition.  She's playing amazing, and she's a great player in general.  It'll definitely be challenging, but I'll do my best to get to the championship match.
Q. You mentioned kind of feeling like there was a curse.  Do you feel like that's gone now that you're in the semis?
GINA KIM: I think I got rid of that now, yeah.  I've totally abolished it.  It's gone.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT