U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2017
Jennifer Chang
Gina Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You beat a heck of a team; just give me your first thoughts, first thing that comes to mind after that match.
JENNIFER CHANG: We knew they were going to be a strong opponent for sure, definitely.  Knowing they played the Curtis Cup, as well, we knew it was going to be a tough match.
Q. Do you think they got out of their game there once you got a couple-hole lead on them?  They seemed to get frustrated.
GINA KIM: Yeah, I would say they kind of got a bit frustrated and started making mistakes, like gave us opportunities to get in there and get into their minds, as well.  I thought like because of their frustration we were able to stay calm and win the match.
Q. When you play an opponent like that, do you go into it any differently or just treat it like any other match?  Do you consider the opponent before the start?
GINA KIM: No, I think every opponent is going to play their best out there, so I expect for myself and my partner to play the best, as well, and see who wins.
Q. Talking about the holes that you won on the front nine, I only followed the back nine, do you remember any details about those holes?
JENNIFER CHANG: Gina won on the second hole with a birdie.  We started off with a bogey, so they were already 1-up, but Gina came back with a birdie, and then No. 3, we both birdied, right?
GINA KIM: No, you just birdied.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, and then Monica birdied that hole, as well, so we were going back and forth on that front nine, but then we came through towards the end.
Q. How long have you two known each other?
JENNIFER CHANG: We go way back.
GINA KIM: I can't even remember, seven years old, eight years old?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, I think nine, eight.
Q. How many four-ball events have you played together?
GINA KIM: This is our second one.
Q. Did you play the U.S. four-ball last year?
JENNIFER CHANG: No, we played Wyndham Cup.
Q. What makes you two good partners?
JENNIFER CHANG: We know each other's games really well.  We've played with each other for a long time, so we know the strength and weaknesses in our parts of our games.
Q. Double-round days like today, how do you keep your mental energy and your physical energy up for the endurance of playing that many holes in this heat?
GINA KIM: Lots of food.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, and a lot of water and Gatorade.
GINA KIM: We're just trying to fuel ourselves with as much energy as we can because we know since it's pretty hot here, we had to get something out of it.  We just kept eating, drinking, and trying to stay focused with that.
Q. What's your mindset tomorrow, you're two wins away from winning this thing?  What do you think when you go to sleep tonight?
GINA KIM: Stay calm.
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah.  I mean, it's like any other match.  Yesterday we woke up same way.  Tomorrow, so...
Q. You're going to USC, you're going to Duke?
JENNIFER CHANG: Yeah, Southern Cal, not South Carolina.
Q. Did you two ever consider going to the same school together?  Were you recruited by the same schools at all?
GINA KIM: I mean, we did look at the same school, but I mean, based on their situation on like how many recruits they could bring in, I didn't think it was really likely for us to go to the same school, based on the scholarship money they were dividing it up into, and it turned out we're going to be a country apart.  I mean, we'll still hang around because she comes home and we'll still be there.
Q. Will you try to play any other USGA events this summer?
JENNIFER CHANG: We're going to try to qualify for the U.S. Girls junior, U.S. Open, and U.S. Amateur.
Q. You're doing Open qualifying still?
GINA KIM: We haven't done it yet.
Q. Which sites are you playing?
GINA KIM: I'm going to Georgia.
JENNIFER CHANG: And I'm going to Massachusetts.
Q. Have you played with Monica and Bailey before?
JENNIFER CHANG: I played with Bailey once, just once.
GINA KIM: No, uh-uh.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT