BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2006
Dramane Diarra
Cartier Martin
Jim Wooldridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE:  The offense, just looking at this stat sheet, kind of -- this is the first chance I've had to look at it -- just dried up on us.  We didn't make enough plays or obviously 1-and-12, 10 from 3-point range.  10 of 18 from the free-throw line.  I thought we were getting the ball where we wanted to get it and got to the free throw line, got I think a lot of shots in-the-paint which was a big part of the game plan today. 
 Then we couldn't stop without fouling them.  Big possessions we gave away defensively, I think we were capable of defending better but today Texas Tech was too much for us. 

 Q.  How disappointing is that to finish like this and talk about just your general feelings right now about what is going on? 
 CARTIER MARTIN:  Right now, I mean, it's very disappointing, we was looking forward to -- we wanted to keep playing.  It's always hard when your season comes to a stop because we all love the game so much that we want to keep playing. 
 DRAMANE DIARRA:  Yeah, we expected much better than this from the whole season.  We came up short.  It's a really big, big disappointment. 
 Q.  Was there anything Texas Tech did that surprised you guys at all? 
 DRAMANE DIARRA:  No, everything they did Coach talked about in the scouting report.  We didn't just execute well and make the right plays at the right time. 
 CARTIER MARTIN:  We couldn't get stops down the stretch.  We didn't get any stops basically. 
 Q.  Talk about the lift that Tanner Ogden, who hadn't seen much action for Tech this year, gave to them. 
 CARTIER MARTIN:  He stepped up and made some good plays for the team.  He hit a couple of outside shots that kind of got the momentum going towards them.  He stepped up and he did some good things. 
 Q.  Did you know anything about him, Tanner, did you guys know who he was? 
 CARTIER MARTIN:  No, I didn't really know him too much. 
 COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE:  It was Number 31 that was making a lot of shots.  (Laughter). 
 Q.  Talk about what happened with you and Tim?  You guys talked afterwards? 
  COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE:  Well, not right now.  I am sure he will visit with you here sometime today and we'll let him -- as we talked yesterday, how it's his call and we'll let him, the athletic director, make whatever announcement, you know, that he's going to make. 
 Q.  You say it's his call, do you believe there's a call to make here? 
  COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE:  I think there's an announcement that's going to be made. 
 Q.  Do you expect to be retained? 
  COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE:  Look, he's going to make an announcement.  I don't have anything to say about it.  That's what I said yesterday. 
 Q.  The players talked a little bit about it but can you talk about the season as a whole, how disappointing it was for you? 
 COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE:  Well, if you have heard me talk about, you know, our team and our program and so forth, you know, I have used the word disappointing at times about you know, a game or two, but I must say that, you know -- I hate to use that word right now. 
 Our basketball team showed some life.  In this business, you can't say, you know, close, and use that as a parameter as to who you are, but it was really that kind of season.  It was a close season. 
 I would use that word probably more so than disappointing because you know those kids are going to play again.  Hopefully they will have the frame of mind that they can have positive frame of minds, they can take from what they accomplished this year and use it in a constructive way a year from now.  Close, not disappointing. 
 Q.  When you look at this season being as close, what do you think it was that kept you guys from not quite -- so many games that you could have won that you didn't quite win, what do you think was the difference this year? 
 COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE:  Well, that's the million-dollar question, and you guys have been around every game, I just hate to say this redundantly all the time, it's a play, it's a defensive play, it's a free throw that we have got to make.  It's a three-point shot or a field goal that we just have to jump up and make, kind of like today. 
 Now how many good shots did we have?  We had a lot of good shots.  I know the game today is not the hot topic today, but we had 19 offensive rebounds.  We had 17 assists, 13 turnovers.  Those are healthy numbers.  And you know, it's -- today it was the fact that, you know, we had some defensive lapses and we missed some layups and we missed some free throws.  The free throw is quote/unquote free throw.  And whether you -- in the middle of the game or at the end of a game, you know, a field goal -- you know, I am sure and I am not -- I just think our team -- we had to stay on balance all the time in every phase, you know, from start to finish because we weren't a great team. 
 But we were a good team and we could beat a lot of people.  But it had to stay on balance from beginning to end.  Just that one play that we had to continue to make we couldn't make it.  I wish there was a better way to explain it.  Maybe you guys know better than me, but that's how I would say. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT