U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Esther Henseleit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on your great play.  Take us through the birdies you made.  How close did you hit it?  Did you make long putts, et cetera?  
ESTHER HENSELEIT: On the first nine, I holed two long putts.  I mean, they were, like, 7 meters, and that was quite good.  I wasn't expecting that, to be honest.   
And then I had a good birdie on, what is it, 15.  I hit it really close, like maybe one feet from about 60 meters.  That was a good shot.   
And then I had two more birdies on the back nine.  I mean, the front nine of this golf course, but my back nine.  One was also like from 100 meters to 2 meters and I holed the putt.  And then one more on the next hole, the par 5, I also had like one meter.   
 Q.  You're in second place, 5 under.  I mean, how big is that for you mentally heading into the next three days?  
ESTHER HENSELEIT: Well, to be honest, it's really great.  I played good the last few months, but it's kind of my first time playing in the U.S., and playing in such a good field.  So it's huge for me.   
 Q.  We've heard a lot about the wind and the weather.  How are you adapting to conditions out there?  
ESTHER HENSELEIT: I think the wind is really tricky.  You don't know where it comes from all the time.  I mean, it's like turning around sometimes.  So I think it's quite hard to deal with that.  But the greens are really good, and you can putt really well.  So I think you can shoot really low.  But you can also make many bogeys if you hit it to the wrong side of the green.   
 Q.  Are you star struck at all by the other players in the field?  
ESTHER HENSELEIT: Well, I mean, I don't feel any pressure because the field is so good, and I just want to do my best and continue my good play from the last week.  So yeah.   
 Q.  At some point in the round, were you just kind of thinking, I've got it today.  I'm playing really good golf today.  Did you just kind of feel that at some point during the rounds?  
ESTHER HENSELEIT: Well, not really.  I mean, I felt that my putter's doing really well, and I felt like I could make many putts.  Because of that, I was also able to attack some flags because I knew, all right, if I miss it, I can do up and down.  So yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT