THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2011
Fredrik Andersson Hed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell me about your round, were you attacking every flag?
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Well, actually, I got off to a bit of a rocky start. I hit a couple of really bad iron shots I thought on the first two holes. Managed to save a good par on my first hole, which was the 10th, and then hit two really nice shots to get on in two on 12 to 2-putt for birdie. Then kind of calmed me down a little bit and I played really solid I thought and of course that finish with four straight birdies, feels fine. 

 Q. How special was that by your standards today?
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: I've never shot a 62 before in competition, so of course, that's fantastic.

 Q. Were you thinking about the potential of winning the tournament as you were climbing up the leaderboard?
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Not really. I can't say. I kept trying to kind of put new goals when I was out. I probably started off today and I was thinking I needed to shoot a low score and when I got to 6-under I was thinking I had to go to 8 and I got to 8 and I thought, oh, I had to get another two.
 But no, I can't really say that I was thinking win, since they were -- when I was kind of getting to double figures, they were already on 14. The course, there were quite a few opportunities out there so I didn't really think I was going to have a chance to win.

 Q. A nice boost ahead of The Open which you are already in. 
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: A bit of self-confidence going into The Open has been great. Hopefully I can get it going and keep it going. 

 Q. Is this a little while coming? 
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, I started off in Italy, started to feel more back to where I felt like last year, so struggled a bit last week but game has been feeling good this week. Even though I shot 73 the first round, I hit 16 greens and played quite solid, just could not get the putter going and the last two rounds, fantastic.

 Q. Just one of those things?
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, it's one of those things. I can't really say it feels like I'm hitting the ball fantastic or that I feel totally confident standing over the ball, but the way I was playing today, it made me feel confident and I hit some really nice iron shots coming down the last few holes and I was able to make the putts.

 Q. Has it been beneficial playing links ahead of Royal St. George's? 
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, I think it's good to have a links course ahead of The Open. I really liked Loch Lomond. 
 When I was going here, I was actually thinking, it's a pity it's not at Loch Lomond but when I'm here, it's just a fantastic course and a really nice track.

 Q. Your thoughts on St. George's?
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: I was there and had a practise round on Monday Wentworth week, and had a little bit of a look at it. At that point at least it was quite dry. Not really any rough to talk about and it seems really flat to me, when you're there, it's kind of sometimes difficult to see exactly where you're going. I guess with the stands everything and, it will look a bit different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT