BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2010
Fredrik Andersson Hed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thoughts on the day?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: I played fantastic and actually I thought I had a chance already after five holes, five or six holes, really. I got to 5-under quite quickly and when I got up on 11, I saw that Chris Wood dropped a couple of shots in the beginning, and I birdied the 11th. All of a sudden, I was tied for the lead. Of course at that point I really, really thought I had a chance.  
  
  Q. Does it help when you know your compatriot has shot a 62 and you know there are chances around here?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, I was thinking about it, and why not do what Robert did yesterday. But I think the course probably played even tougher today. The pins were tucked away, especially on last few holes, tucked away pretty good. So I'm really happy with my score today.   
  
  Q. With those last few holes, there's a lovely way to redeem that is at the last after the previous bogey?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, I don't know what happened on 17. I saw it was a tricky pin position that was difficult to get to so I was trying to hit a little bit of a draw to get it around the mound.   
 The course is quite firm and just in that spot it was quite soft, so it doesn't really help out either.   
  
  Q. I guess you're just brimming with confidence at the moment. What is it about BMW?   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: I don't know, something special about BMW obviously. But I got plenty of confidence at the moment after the win in Italy of course.   
  
  Q. Did you get to celebrate?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: I did get to celebrate the day after with my family, so that was good. It didn't take that long to sink in really probably because I was leading by six going into the last round; almost won the tournament on Saturday but just keep playing decent on Sunday.   
 So I was kind of, of course, hoping and thinking that I would win on Sunday.   
  
  Q. It's not always easy to get yourself back up and back into competition, but you seemed to manage it nicely.   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, a week off last week and of course a lot of media and a lot of TV and newspapers back home the first few days, but eased off and had a few days off.   
  
  Q. Could be a second victory.   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Hopefully.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT