BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2010
Fredrik Andersson Hed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Not quite as low as yesterday, but always nice to finish with a birdie?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: It is. Especially after the trouble I was in on 17. I was lucky that one of the marshals found the ball in the leaves. I kind of thought it was -- I thought it was inbounds, but it was in a bunch of leaves and I didn't really dare go through it. But one of the marshals found and it I was able to make a bogey at the least.  
  
  Q. What do you make of the course? A lot has been said about the changes. Do they suit you?   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, I think it's fun to play. The changes, I guess, as always, when you change a course, a few of the greens probably get a little bit worse, but a few get better. I guess it will be an exciting finish with the 18th green as it is. I don't know how many players that will go for it over the weekend, but still, it's exciting.   
  
  Q. Would you be tempted?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Tempted, but I don't think I would go for it. I mean, there's always -- it's always a risk and a reward. It feels like the risk is bigger than the reward, or at least it feels like the chance of making birdie from the fairway, 80, 90 metres away is as good as right of the green, and that would be the safe shot if you are going for it and bailing out and missing out on the right and you have quite a tough up-and-down from back there.   
  
  Q. And you're in form, obviously boosted massively by the win in Italy?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yes, of course, the self-confidence is up and that, of course, helps on the course, if you start hitting a few bad shots and you still feel like you have the self-confidence to turn it around and get a good or decent score.  
  
  Q. And the exemption that you got with the win, that helps you to relax a bit more?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yes, of course, I made enough money to make my card now anyway even if I would not have the exemption from the winner's category. Yes, of course, it feels good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT