THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 5, 2009
Fredrik Andersson Hed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: I got off to a bit of a rocky start yesterday, but got a lucky break on 7 to get a birdie there, and then got the round started. Today I've been playing really solid. A couple of mistakes at the end, but apart from that, it's been good.  
  
  Q. But essentially consolidated things, and you're in a very fine position.   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, I saw that. I actually thought the score was going to be a little bit better here. I thought someone was going to shoot at least double digits after two rounds, but as it looks like now, they are leading on 7, so just a couple behind.   
  
  Q. It's hard to gauge, but the wind does seem to be picking up and the weather seemed to deteriorate a bit and perhaps that score is even better?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, it might be, depending on what the weather does this afternoon of course, but I still think that these conditions are going to be good this afternoon as well.  
  
  Q. It must be good to be up there, because you haven't been, on The European Tour, for a while.   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Absolutely. Absolutely. I struggled a bit last year and haven't played that much this year, so I'm happy to be there.   
  
  Q. What's the reason, because there was a stage where you were up there consistently pretty regularly.   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, I was. I've been working hard this year on my game, especially during the winter, so hopefully that's paying off now.  
  
  Q. But you were obviously working hard last season but were you modifying things and just didn't get the results?   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Well, yeah, it felt like I played pretty good last year, as well, but I didn't get the results. So hopefully that will come now.   
  
  Q. It must be obviously so frustrating when you have had such success.   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Of course, and that might be a little bit of the reason why I didn't get the results, as well, put too much pressure on myself and not able to get the results and then you put even more pressure on yourself.  
  
  Q. And when that happened, do you have to lean on a few people and have that team work to build up the confidence, build up the spirits?   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Of course, of course. I've got my coaches to help me out, and they have done a good job and I'm working hard, so hopefully it pays off.  
  
  Q. Must be tricky with a stop/start schedule that you have.   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yes, it is, of course, you don't really get into it. But at least now I played The Challenge Tour event last year, so I'm a little bit more into it now playing the main tour events.  
 But it is difficult; this is only my sixth Tour event this year and I've played one on The Challenge Tour. Hopefully there will be a little bit more now during the summer, consistent golf, maybe not that many on the main tour but at least consistent with Challenge Tour events in between.  
  
  Q. Bearing in mind where you live and the winters you can have there, how was preparation, or did you go away to Spain or Dubai?  
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Preparation was mainly indoors during a couple of months there. Of course, I went to play a couple of the events in South Africa to get a little bit more outdoor golf as well, but mainly indoors, actually.   
  
  Q. And you've somehow just kept it going when you've had to have a two-week break here and there?   
 FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED: Yeah, of course, of course. I haven't had that many days off golf, at all, during the year, even though I haven't played much. I've been practicing almost every day, anyway, so try to keep it going.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT