DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2012
Fredrik Andersson Hed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very good round, five birdies, no bogeys, how did you play?
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   I played quite solid I thought.   I had a couple few chances in the middle there that I didn't get, and was a bit disappointed with that but got a couple birdies on the last few holes and a good par at the last so I was quite happy.

Q.   A bit unusual playing conditions after some severe rain this morning.   How was the course this morning? 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Yeah, absolutely the greens are a bit softer than normal and the fairways, as well, of course, so you can be a little bit more aggressive on the pins. 
So that probably makes it a little bit easier. 

Q.   Regarding your game, you've been playing solidly, last week you were second in Hong Kong; how is your form coming into this last week?
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   During the practise days it felt pretty much the same as it did last week.   I've plan playing solid for both last week and now starting this week, so hopefully I can keep going. 

Q.   Does the course suit you as well? 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   I like it.   It suits my eye, definitely.   I think if anything, it's quite generous off the tee, which normally suits me as well, because I guess I'm not the most accurate one off the tees. 
So then I mean, feeling good, and hitting the irons good, and then the putting is fine. 

Q.   It's not always easy to say why it suits your aye, but is there a reason, apart from the generosity off the tee?
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   I like the lay of the course with the bunkers positioned where they are and everything.   It looks tempting standing off the tee to hit a shot and then of course when it's a little bit wider maybe than usual, that takes a bit of pressure off the drive.

Q.   Having played so well, do you come into this sort of thinking, yeah, this is the last one for the season, let's really give it my everything and get a W? 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Yeah, I'm not sure, giving everything, I hope I do that every week anyway. 
But the golf course, you could come here and be a little bit happy with what you've done during the year and just be content and not quite pushing as much as you want.   But I've tried to make myself really push for a good tournament this week, as well.   It's a good start. 

Q.   You want to win every tournament, but maybe cap a fine season? 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Absolutely.   That would be fantastic.   But I was happy with my performance last week, and of course that putt at the last, if that would have gone in, if it would have, I guess Miguel would have holed his anyway.   But no, I mean, good self‑confidence coming into this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT