UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 18, 2012
Fredrik Andersson Hed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   It was pretty good.   I don't think I've ever played better than I did today under pressure.   I played pretty solid.   There were a couple loose shots on 15 and 16 that I got a way with and made pars and then unfortunately couldn't get the birdies in on 17.   It always feels good to finish second in a golf tournament; you know you've done something good. 
It's a pity I couldn't get one of the putts on the last two holes to put a little bit more pressure on him on the last hole.   He did fantastic, though, with a perfect tee shot, the perfect second shot and easy 2‑putt.   So all credit to Miguel.

Q.   Was it the right timing, looking into next week, the last tournament of the year and a very important one? 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Of course, it builds a bit of confidence.   Again, having had three weeks off before last week and then I didn't get to finish, unfortunately, and of course it feels good to get a good tournament in.

Q.   You said about feeling the pressure and performing under pressure; was it anxious out there maybe? 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   No, I wasn't that nervous.   I was a bit tense the first couple of holes, got a bit tense again somewhere around mid‑back nine.   And then I could feel the pressure a bit on the putt at the last and apart from that I felt really good.   I felt relaxed but still very focused and in my game.   It felt great. 

Q.   There was so much to be proud of, so much that worked and so much that was good?
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Yeah, I thought so.   Like I said, I think it's probably the best I've ever played under pressure when you're in this situation and you can win a tournament.   But fortunately couldn't get it all the way there, but close. 

Q.   And how many boards were you looking at, because Miguel was up there all the time, Matteo was up there, others jockeyed. 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   I looked on all of the boards I could have a look at but there are not many boards out there.   There's no boards on the front nine, so the first one you get to see it on the 10th green.   And then there are a couple more on the back nine.   I look at every board I can.

Q.   The man that's won, he's quite something, isn't he. 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   He is.   He's fantastic.   I played with him yesterday and he's really good to play with, as well. 

Q.   Have you got an appreciation of how he plays this game and his longevity in it? 
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Absolutely.   He's been out for many, many years and been successful and I think he's been very important to The Ryder Cup team, as well. 
Of course, now he will be the oldest winner on the Tour, as well, I guess, so he's done fantastic.   Can you see yourself playing like this at 48.   I'm not sure I'm playing when I'm 48 but if I am, hopefully I'm playing that good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT