JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2012
Fredrik Andersson Hed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   I got off to a really, really bad start of course with a snap‑hook off the first tee.   Normally it's like, I would say it's a little 9‑iron on the second shot but I had a 5‑iron from the thick rough in the left.   
I managed to get it up on the green but 3‑putted from a long distance.   Kind of got me going only because after that, I eagled the second, birdied three and then six and seven and all of a sudden I was 4‑under.   
   
 Q.   Strange, we've shot a 65 here, 11‑under, sitting second at the moment, and you concentrate on the first hole?  
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Yeah, I mean, that's kind of‑‑ I think it got me going.   I was a bit tense when I stood on the first tee.   Those bad shots may be kind of got me going a bit more than I would have normally.   But of course, I'm really happy.   
   
 Q.   Has it been coming?   Certainly across the week, it's shaped nicely?  
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Well, I found some things‑‑ well, I was actually struggling a bit with my swing coming here.   I had a few different things I was working on, seems like nothing was able to get the ball where I wanted to, but then I kind of went back to an old, old swing thought that I used a few years ago and that seemed to work.   I'm doing that all week and I'm hitting the ball pretty good.   
   
 Q.   It's one of those situations where you think, why did you ever change it?  
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   The swing is always changing, so you kind of have to have different swing thoughts to elaborate; you can't use the same one all the time, because it's not going to work all the time.  
   
 Q.   If we put this into context, the season has not been bad, has it?   There have been some nice results and there have been some lovely rounds, but maybe not four together?  
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   There's been some decent results, I would say, but not good.   Hopefully I build some confidence from this one and keep playing good for the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   If my records are correct, it's been since Scottish Open last year?  
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   Well, depends how I finish, of course, but no matter where I finish, it will help me out in the rankings, and that of course will help me self‑confidence‑wise, as well.   
   
 Q.   A lot of big events at the end of the season?  
FREDRIK ANDERSSON HED:   There is.   I'm going to play Switzerland and possibly KLM and Italy the next three weeks and then there will be some big ones after, that as well, so see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT