ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 3, 2011
Jo Pavey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Have you had to change your training at all? I've been getting responses from lots of people about how they are modifying their training. Paula has given up track racing. Have you moved off the track completely?   
 JO PAVEY: I haven't sort of made a decision to leave the track, because I still fancy trying to get a PB at 10,000 meters. I feel like that is something I haven't really done yet, because I just started to do the 10,000, then I was pleased when I was fourth in Osaka, but I had endless problems in Beijing and I ran badly. I don't want to make excuses, but it didn't go well on the day.   
 After that I got pregnant and had my little boy, and I turned my attention to marathons. So I feel like I was only just starting to touch over 10,000.   
 So even though my main focus is the marathon, I do fancy improving that PB.  
  
  Q. You've had a long career. You've been running well since you were 15. Apart from the two injury breaks, it's been as long as Paula's. So you've had a lot of miles, but you're not having to modifying them. Haile has been doing his intervals on the treadmill because of the pounding. People make these different modifications it seems rather about your age or maybe later.   
 JO PAVEY: Yeah, I think the modifications, even though I'm still doing some track work, I've had to do more repetitions on a straight trail or a straight road because after my foot injury, it was particularly flowing up to run around bends fast. I still keep in touch with the track, but I've done less and modified it.  
  
  Q. Is that because of the knee?  
 JO PAVEY: Yeah, it just flairs up on tight bends. But I've kept in touch with the track because I'm still fairly new to the marathon. I think for years, spending years as a track runner, whether I'm in shape, I can do certain reps on the track, and I've become more experienced as a marathon runner. I think I'm fairly new to marathons still. As you become more aware of your marathon shape, can you probably stop doing road, and because I'm quite new, I'm still doing a lot of sessions. But the track, I've got so much history on it, that I know where I'm at more and I can still do certain things.  
  
  Q. Has Jacob made a difference?   
 JO PAVEY: Yeah, I feel happy in my personal life, so it makes me feel happy in my running and more determined. Obviously, it's a lot busier. He's with us 24/7. So it's quite a bit of juggling. My husband is very supportive and looks after him while I train.  
  
  Q. Is Jacob actually two?   
 JO PAVEY: Yeah, he's two. He was two in September. He runs around. He's very fast.  
  
  Q. You understand the progression of your training and what's happening mentally?   
 JO PAVEY: Yeah, sometimes you don't follow advice that you would give someone else. Maybe you don't want to rest as much as you should. As an athlete, you've got your athlete's head on.  
  
  Q. So do you think -- you said that you're still new to the marathon. You've actually only run one?  
 JO PAVEY: Yes.  
  
  Q. Do you think you can reach the same level competitively that you've reached on the track? In other words, when it matters fourth and fifth in the world?   
 JO PAVEY: I would like to. It's very tough. I'm still learning. I've learned a lot from the London Marathon. Even though it speaks to so many people like the physiologists and other people that have run marathons, and I've tried to take it all aboard. But it wasn't until I did one that I learned so much from it that I got my pacing wrong, and I paid for it in the late stages. Just everything about it really. I've only gotten to 18 miles and I suddenly felt terrible and must have hit the wall.  
  
  Q. You're not the first.   
 JO PAVEY: It happens really quickly. In the pace of five seconds. It was really odd. I think I just imagined if you went for it, it would happen gradually, but it was kind of a switch. It was very sudden. I was very, very surprised what that felt like.  
  
  Q. So what will that do to you? Will you go out?   
 JO PAVEY: I need to be aware. I want to go out there and be in a good race. I think what's unique about this race, obviously it's an exciting historic race and great atmosphere. But also it's a very good preparation for championship running because there are no pace makers. I think it's good to take part in a championship-style race because that always gives you great spirit. So I want to get out there and get some more marathon experience, really.   
 The course is known for being a tough course, so it's not necessarily a course where you'd run your fastest at the time, but at the same time it's a good opportunity to get out there and be in a competitive race and try to put in a good performance.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT