NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FIRST ROUND - ORAL ROBERTS VS OHIO STATE
March 19, 2021
Chris Holtmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Oral Roberts - 75, Ohio State - 72
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for joining us this afternoon.  We will begin with an opening statement from Coach Holtmann.
 CHRIS HOLTMANN:   I want to first begin by giving Oral Roberts credit.  I thought they really played well, as we expected they would.  I thought their two players that obviously concerned us were terrific.  So give them, their coaches, their players, their program, the university a lot of credit for this win.
 I think we had no illusions that this was going to be a -- by any stretch, anything other than a really challenging game, and it obviously was that from the very jump.  Ultimately, too many missed shots, too many missed free throws, but give them credit for making the plays.  Congratulations to them for moving on.
 Q. Your team had 15 turnovers this afternoon.  Was that a result of Oral Roberts' defense or your team being careless or nonchalant with the ball?
 CHRIS HOLTMANN:   I thought we had a few careless ones, but give them credit for their activity too.  I thought we had a few careless ones in the first half, and they dug down and got a few offensive rebounds and a few turnovers off of some post-ups, but give them credit for that activity.
 THE MODERATOR:   I know the season just ended, Coach, but any chance to put the season into perspective?  I know it's very fresh.
 CHRIS HOLTMANN:   Any time you're a 2 seed, that kind of speaks for itself.  I thought our guys had a terrific season.  This is obviously a really, really bitter, bitter end to a terrific season, but we'll own that and accept it, and we'll move forward.
 Q. Chris, it just didn't look like the guys were all there today.  I don't know if that's fair or not.  Can you explain the mindset going in?  Did you feel like something was off?  Or just give me your perspective of the vibe.
 CHRIS HOLTMANN:   Yeah, I thought the vibe was really good.  I thought our preparation was really good.  I thought that we just had too many missed opportunities, too many turnovers, too many empty possessions on offense.
 Did not think we had a great start.  That's my fault.  But, no, I thought they were -- you know, they were as ready as they've been all season.
 Q. Duane had the green light there -- not the very end, but when he took the shot, he didn't go inside to E.J.  Was there thought of maybe trying to draw the foul?  Or explain the thinking how you drew that up.
 CHRIS HOLTMANN:   The regulation play?
 Q. Yes.
 CHRIS HOLTMANN:   We were just trying to get in space and get downhill.  Yeah, we were trying to get him in space, get him to his left hand, get downhill off of a ghost action.
 THE MODERATOR:   Coach, some words on this year's seniors, all that they've been through this season and sort of what they mean to the program.
 CHRIS HOLTMANN:   Listen, I've spoken often about CJ Walker and Kyle Young and what they've meant to our program.  They've been phenomenal people, players, advocates of what we want our program to be about, tremendous leaders, great competitors.  Obviously, we're hoping Kyle gets back healthy in a timely fashion, but I know he's hurting for his teammates.  I know he would have loved to have been out there, but certainly it was the right decision to hold him out.
 CJ's a tremendous kid.  He's a tremendous kid, tremendous leader.  They're everything we want our seniors to be about.
 Q. Apologize if you've already been asked this.  I came in late.  E.J. did play hard, other than a couple of turnovers that were kind of odd.  Were you pleased with his performance?
 CHRIS HOLTMANN:   Yeah, it was a tough matchup for him defensively because of how we had the switch.  It was a tough matchup for us, tough matchup for him.  He had to expend a lot of energy at the other end.  They're really good, and their two players are really good in those pick-and-roll spots.
 Yeah, I thought -- you know, I'm proud of E.J., proud of the sophomore year he had, proud of the kid he is.  He had a tremendous sophomore year.
 THE MODERATOR:   Coach, thank you very much for your time today.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT