NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: RALEIGH
March 16, 2016
Chris Holtmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Coach Holtmann, you're a native Kentuckian and Tubby Smith obviously had great success with the Wildcats there.  Have you crossed path was him at all?  And were you a Tubby Smith and Kentucky fan growing up?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: You know, Tubby Smith is my mom's second favorite basketball coach.  I think she -- and he's her favorite Kentucky basketball Coach.  She has great, I think respect -- anybody that has been around Coach Smith has great respect and admiration for who he is, and I've not got a chance to spend a whole lot of time with him.  In Puerto Rico, we crossed paths a little bit and had a conversation, but, you know, my mom is a life-long Kentucky fan, as is my family, and she still listens to every single Kentucky game.  As a matter of fact, if Butler and Kentucky are playing at the same time, she'll watch Butler and listen to Kentucky.   
She's got a great, as does my family, a great respect for Coach Smith, as do I.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what kind of a role Tyler Lewis has played for you this year, given that he's back in his former home building?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Sure, sure.  Yeah.  He's obviously been an important part of our team this year, and really has been instrumental in some very important wins for us dating back to the non-conference and into the conference.   
You know, we've had great contributions.  Obviously Tyler played exceptionally well against Purdue, played very well in Puerto Rico.  Had some injury issues, had a concussion issue in the middle of conference play, but since has returned and really given us some really important and valuable minutes.  You know, our Seton hall game at home, he came in and gave us some life when we really needed it.   
So he's been an important part of an NCAA Tournament team, and I know he's excited to be back here in his home town.   
 Q.  Butler has had excellent runs in the NCAA Tournament; two Final Fours back to back.  You seem to always be making noise somewhere.  Does that put a target on your back as a mid-major that everybody knows you and expects big things from you at this time of year?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Sure.  I think the move to the Big East, the mid-major moniker has probably fallen off as soon as we made that move, even maybe before so.  I think our league is outstanding, and I think that has prepared us well.  Listen, I've said this a number of times, and I've been reminded about this, and I've given Brad credit for it.  He texted me on the last two Selection Sundays.  You know, well before Selection Sunday and says, you know, and reminds me, do not ever take this for granted.  Coach Stevens, that is.   
I think that this is a party that everybody wants to get an invite to, and everybody wants to get an invite to, and when you don't get an invite, you're sour for months, and when you do get an invite, you want to cherish every moment and embrace every moment and have fun with it, and you're hungry as can be to get back and to get another invite.   
So, I think our guys have a great appreciation for how hard -- listen, as I said, we're two years removed from 4-14 in the Big East in our first year and about as far off from the bubble as you can get.   
So, we're excited about this.  We know we're playing a tremendous team, and we hope we can play well, and live to fight another day.   
 Q.  Coach, we're kind of used to Butler teams of the past for their lockdown defense.  This team has been a very efficient offensively.  What has Butler done well on those occasions, when you have been exceptional defensively?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Well, David, it's really helped us win games.  Let be honest, it's been a real struggle for us this year.  You know, we went from being an elite team defensively last year to much better offensively this year, or better offensively.  And when we've struggled, the other day when we struggled, we struggled on both ends but our defense has to be considerably better than what it was the other night.  Fortunately we had stretches down the stretch when we were 7-2 when our defenses were good and in some cases our defense won the game for us.  That has to be what we're about, and, you know, that's -- I think, certainly on our guys'  minds and been on our guys' minds in practice.   
We're playing a very good offensive team.  This Texas Tech team is top 30 in the country in offensive efficiency.  So they're very good.  It's going to be a great challenge for us defensively.   
 Q.  Also, do the players, have they developed a comfort level with going back and forth from man-to-man and zone?  You know, you've had good and bad with both defenses.  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Sure.   
 Q.  How do they process -- because changing defenses can really disrupt an opponents' offense because you don't know what they're going to do next.  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Yeah.  I think it's -- we've had to do that on some occasions for various reasons.  We've had trouble at times with certain actions, and I don't want to get into specifics, that have forced us to play some zone, and we've been very good in zone at times.  Our entire defensive system just needs to, you know -- it's improved over the last months and a half, but our entire system from our baseline underneath defense to our zone defense to our man-to-man defense really needs to be on point tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for Coach?  All right.  Thank you very much.   
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Okay.  Thank you, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT