NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: PITTSBURGH
March 21, 2015
Andrew Chrabascz
Chris Holtmann
Roosevelt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NOTRE DAME - 67
  BUTLER - 64

MODERATOR: From Butler, we have student-athletes Roosevelt Jones and Andrew Chrabascz and head coach Chris Holtmann.  Opening statement from coach to begin.  Coach?COACH HOLTMANN: Obviously, a tough one for us.  Really disappointing loss.  I think we give, you know, Notre Dame a lot of credit.  They are obviously hard to play against and I think we were able to do some things and we had the game where we wanted it.  We just weren't able to make enough plays there late. I thought our guys really fought and I give Notre Dame a lot of credit for pulling this one out.  I thought the key threes they hit there in the second half or, excuse me, in the overtime kind of broke it open a little bit.MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. For Rose, Rose, can you talk a little bit about how you knee felt during the game tonight?ROOSEVELT JONES: My knee felt pretty good the entire game.  The trainer did an excellent job for the two days I had treatment, so I really didn't feel any pain during the game.
Q. For Andrew, they out-rebounded you barely tonight, 40-36.  What was difficult about keeping them off the glass?ANDREW CHRABASCZ: Possibly just because they spread it, spread the court out so well.  So they're just going to have steam when they're crashing the boards.  That could be why.  We just needed to get a couple more rebounds.  That's basically it.  Whoever wants it more is going to get it.  So at that point, we just needed to get more.MODERATOR: Any other questions for the student-athletes?  Anyone?  Gentlemen, thank you. Questions for Coach Holtmann.
Q. Coach, Kellen struggled tonight offensively due to their defense.  What did they make -- how did they make it difficult on him to get clean looks?COACH HOLTMANN: I think he was able to get some clean looks and I think the clean ones he got, he wasn't able to knock down, just wasn't his night.  Having said that, I think they did a good job on him. I think Grant did a good job; his length and athleticism bothered him.  They obviously gave him a lot of attention.  I think he would admit that there were some looks he had that he would like to get back, and he just had some clean ones he wasn't able to knock down.  Having said that, you have to give them credit because I think they wore on him a little bit.
Q. In overtime, did this game play out from a defensive standpoint exactly like you thought it would, where they spread the floor and they're just really, really hard because you have to guard from sideline to sideline?COACH HOLTMANN: Yeah.  It's exactly how we thought it would play out.  I think we fouled them too much there in the first half.  We talked to our guys about that at halftime and were able to limit some of that and were able to get some momentum there in the middle part of the second half. Again, we just couldn't make quite enough plays.  But I can't say enough about it.  I think our guys played with great effort.  They followed the game plan.  We had it where we wanted it.
Q. It's probably too soon to grasp everything, but you just wrapped up your first season as Butler's head coach.  What do you think of this group that carried you through this first season?COACH HOLTMANN: As I told them in there, Tom, we've said it -- I've said it for the past couple weeks, there's not a group that I wanted to do this with more than this group.  I think the special thing for us, and it's hard to think about right now, but I think those that -- we certainly hope that those that we have a great deal of respect for, that have either played for coached or been a part of Butler, we hope that they have taken great pride in the way we've went about things this year.  And that's a credit to those guys.  I think they have played with a resiliency and a toughness that hopefully represents or certainly has represented our program.  And I told them there they did that this year and it's something we need to continue to do.MODERATOR: Anyone else for Coach Holtmann?  Coach, thank you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT