NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: TULSA
March 22, 2019
Chris Holtmann
Kaleb Wesson
Keyshawn Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 62     Iowa State - 59   
THE MODERATOR: We're going to ask Coach Holtmann to make a statement on the game, and then we'll have questions for all three members of Ohio State.   
Chris, please.   
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Yeah.  Listen, it was a whale of a game, that's for sure.  You know, players win games, and our guys stepped up and made so many key plays against an Iowa State team that had a terrific season.  Got tremendous respect for Steve and their program and how talented that group is.   
So, to beat them as well as they were playing is a great credit to our guys, and we know we have another tremendous challenge here in short turnaround, but we're excited to be a part of this thing.  That's for sure.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
Questions.   
 Q.  This team Iowa State, they were one of the best offensive teams in the country in offensive efficiency.  What did you do on defense that made the difference?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: I think our guys -- you know, we did struggle a little bit in the second half.  They got it going in the second half.  That's a credit to them.  I think our guys were really locked in to what we were trying to do against them in terms of our game plan and they really, really committed to it.  And I thought, you know, we had some really important plays in the rim, too.  Caleb and other guys were able to impact some shots at the rim.  We just I thought played really hard and really committed to trying to make it difficult for them.  They are one of the best offensive teams in the country.  It was a big challenge.   
 Q.  For the players, you guys held them without a field goal for almost ten minutes of the first half.  Can you describe how you did that, that stretch, and what you remember from it defensively?  
KALEB WESSON: Just came down, set up our preparation.  While we were preparing, we were worrying about their offense and high volume their guys were.  So just focusing on that really helped us.   
KEYSHAWN WOODS: Same thing Caleb said.  Our preparation really got it ready for their mark when we held them from scoring and our communication on the court as well.  We was really locked in for those ten minutes and now we just got to do it for 40 minutes.   
 Q.  You guys as a team didn't have a made field goal for almost three minutes at the end.  What was the difference maker on defense to hold on to that lead?  
KEYSHAWN WOODS: We knew we had to get stops.  That's what we pride ourselves on, defense.  And with regard to scoring, we know our defense travels with us, and that was the most important thing, that was the last three minutes making sure we was locked in and getting as many stops as possible to win the game.   
KALEB WESSON: Like Keyshawn says, defense, you can't question it.  It's always going to be there on defense.  Shots missed, shots made, but that defense is always going to be there.   
 Q.  Chris, I know you guys were kind of sweating it out on Sunday.  To now be in the position you are, how does this feel?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Well, yeah.  I think it feels great, obviously.  You know, you could say it validates the committee's decision, but we really felt like we had put together a really strong body of work and that our guys had earned it.  And I think that you're always concerned when you're in a situation where it's -- you know, you're on potentially that cut line, but we really did feel like our guys earned it.   
We knew we had a tremendous challenge.  I think this was considered the highest of the 6 seeds potentially.  I think they might have been, but again, our players, Caleb was tremendous in terms of his imposing himself.  I thought that was so important for that to happen, really throughout the game.   
If he didn't impose himself physically, I thought we could really struggle just to keep pace with as high octane as they are.   
 Q.  Chris, I know you just won the game.  Early thoughts on Houston?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: One of the best teams in the country.  I think I thought that all year.  I've had a chance to watch them a little bit just because I admire how they play, how hard they play, how connected -- I know they're a veteran group.  They're one of the elite teams in the country.   
 Q.  Follow up some thoughts about Kelvin Sampson, the job he's doing?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: He's tremendous.  He's won everywhere he's been.  You look at his track record and it shouldn't be a surprise.  You know when a guy like that wins at every level every place he's been, it shouldn't surprise anybody.  He's created quite the impressive program there.   
 Q.  Caleb, coach said that you imposed yourself physically down there, down low.  Can you add to that and also speak to whether you sensed that they were getting frustrated trying to guard you in the low post?  
KALEB WESSON: Yeah.  Like you said, I imposed myself because of my preparation.  You know, my coaches and my teammates, they prepare me every day in practice, push me to finish shots that sometimes it's hard to finish, you know.  And you have that, it just makes for easy basketball.   
 Q.  Coach, Big Ten was 7 - 1 in the first round.  Can you address that success rate?  
CHRIS HOLTMANN: You know, you're careful to talk too early.  There's a lot of tournament left to be played.  We've certainly played well in these opening days and played well against really quality teams with great matchups.   
But it's the best league I've ever been a part of, this year in the Big Ten.  It's the best league I've ever been part of from top to bottom.  I can't explain how difficult it is to play on a given night.  And when you're playing now 20 of those games, you're going to have losses.   
So, the whole idea of, well, you know, this group sitting with this loss and -- you know, in some cases it is apples and oranges compared to some other league.  Obviously, we played a team today from another outstanding league, but it is just -- I think the league has genuine prepared us for this moment as it has all the other teams.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for the gentlemen from Ohio State?  Okay.  Thank you very much.  See you Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT