BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 15, 2019
Chris Holtmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Michigan State - 77, Ohio State - 70
COACH HOLTMANN: Give Michigan State credit.  I think they're a terrific, terrific team.  Really solid in every way.  And I think they have a chance to have a really special, special postseason.  So give them credit, first and foremost.
Proud of the way our guys battled, fought, kept fighting, kept battling all the way until the end.  But just didn't have enough today.
Q. You are widely respected as a tactician.  I'm curious how frustrating can it be when you game plan but you probably didn't game plan for Foster Loyer?
COACH HOLTMANN: He's a good player.  We saw him in high school.  And, sure, when you have, you know, Winston, it's hard to spend too much time talking about his back-up.  But we did talk about him.  But he played really well.  Give him credit.  I thought his 3s gave them real life, when he was 3-of-3 and then the one in the zone in the second half when it was a one- or two-possession game.  I thought his 3s really gave them life.
Q. Just your overall thought as you leave here today just on what these two games meant for your team to kind of stabilize things after the way the regular season ended. Are you coming away from here a little bit better about your team than coming in?
COACH HOLTMANN: Yeah, positive about our group.  I thought our group really competed.  I thought our guys really competed both days, really competed.  Beat, obviously, a really good Indiana team and then competed here today.  We had some foul trouble issues that really did affect our team with Keyshawn and Kaleb.  But really positive about this group and obviously we've had some really, really good moments this year, but as you mentioned finished with a tough couple game stretch there before we came here.  But proud of this group and feel really good about where we're headed.
Q. Is it enough?  Are you guys in your mind in the NCAA Tournament?
COACH HOLTMANN: I believe so, sure.  But I think our body of work from opening night, which a coach says, body of work, opening night, well, our opening-night win was pretty good.  But, yeah, I certainly feel confident in our body of work.  And the league we played in is top to bottom the best in the country.  I really believe that.  I think the metrics would show that. Coaches say that all the time:  that's the best league in the country.  But I think our metrics would show an objective look at that, that it is the best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT