AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 5, 2019
Didi Gregorius
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Yankees - 8, Twins - 2
Q. Didi, what was the reaction to hitting the ball? Did you think it was foul at first, or were you just amazed at how much you got it?
DIDI GREGORIUS: I knew it was fair, but just thinking back to my at-bats that I had against him yesterday, and after I had two strikes, he threw me that fastball, so I was prepared for it this time after he threw me the curveball in the dirt. I was ready for it this time, so that's why my reaction was like that.
Q. Didi, Aaron said yesterday your final at-bat, the walk you had was huge for you. Did you take away anything from that? Did that give you any momentum going into today?
DIDI GREGORIUS: Not really, but as soon as you get on base, that's something you use for the whole team. That's something we try to do all these games, just go out there and win. That's all we try to do. It's a good step for me. That dribbler, I think, was the one that actually put it out there for me.
Q. Didi, how impressed are you with your team's ability to capitalize with runners in scoring position, compared to last year where it seemed to be a struggle?
DIDI GREGORIUS: Well, last year is last year. You know, every year we focus on trying to get better, and that's one of the things we always talked about with runners in scoring position, and that's the thing that helps you win the game. So I think that's what the team has been doing the whole year round, and it's always bring the next guy up.
Q. Didi, just like at first glance, did you think that ball was fair or foul? Is that what you were looking at? Did you know immediately?
DIDI GREGORIUS: No, I knew it was fair.
Q. What's it been like for you this last month and a half? What work have you been doing to try to break out?
DIDI GREGORIUS: I've been doing the same work I've been doing since I got here. I didn't try to change anything, just try to swing at strikes. That's one thing for me right now and be patient. I'm just all over the place swinging at almost every ball. I think that's one thing, and be aggressive in the strike zone. That's what I'm trying to do right now.
Q. Didi, you've been out there for a number of Tanaka's postseason starts at shortstop. Is there just another level you see that he takes his game up when he's in the postseason setting?
DIDI GREGORIUS: Oh, yeah, definitely. He takes it even on a better level. He's having a good year. Like in big moments, he just comes in so calm and gets on the mound and you barely get any reaction from him. That's what you want to see from a starter. He does a really great job. He's composed and always ready to go when it's his time.
Q. Didi, you pride yourself on blocking out all the outside noise and forgetting what happened yesterday and looking forward. Have your philosophies been challenged by this slump you've had?
DIDI GREGORIUS: The slump that I had? I mean, everybody goes through ups and downs, but the confidence level always got to stay up. So for me, just focus on my job and try to get better. That's all I can do. People are always going to say something if you do good or bad. For me, it's just go out there, play the ball, and try to get better.
Q. What's the feeling like to hit a grand slam in a playoff game, particularly in a big spot like that?
DIDI GREGORIUS: What's the feeling? I mean, it's a great feeling to come back for the team, but the best thing is just getting the "W." That's what we always focus on, and like I said in the beginning. That's all we want to get, get a "W."
I've got, what, eight more, ten more, nine more to go. That's what we want, so just keep going.
Q. To go in tonight with everyone in the offense having contributed so far, how much of a boost is that moving forward in the series?
DIDI GREGORIUS: That just shows you what this team can do. We're not just relying on one person. This group has always been together, top two batters doing damage. If I don't do it today or don't do it right now, there's a guy behind me that I've got enough trust in him that he's going to do the job anyway. So it's always been like that for us.
Q. What's this group's mindset being up 2-0? I know you guys hyper focus on each individual game, a chance to make it a quick series, what does that mean to you guys?
DIDI GREGORIUS: We just go out there and play the game. We don't want to think so far ahead. We're taking it one game at a time and control what you can control in that situation and go from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT