AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES VS RED SOX
October 7, 2018
Didi Gregorius
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Didi, the last couple of postseasons, what kind of lift have you guys gotten from the Yankee Stadium crowd?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: It's unbelievable.  They push us throughout the whole season, and they push it even more here in the postseason, I think.  That's what you want from them.  It's been an unbelievable atmosphere when we play here at home.   
 Q.  Didi, today's like a treatment day for players.  Are you still getting treatment for your wrist?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: Yes, I am.   
 Q.  How's that going?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: It's going really good.  I've had a lot of improvement, so it's feeling way better than a couple days before.   
 Q.  Do you get any sort of sense that with the game yesterday and coming back for these two games at Yankee Stadium that you guys have any momentum in this series?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: Oh, yeah.  I mean, first game didn't go our way, but we kept battling and came up a little bit short.  Yesterday's game, it was just a go-ahead game.  We started good and then we played good the whole game.  Stay in the same rhythm coming here playing at home, especially in front of all these fans.  Just keep the same rhythm and everything going and go in the right direction.   
 Q.  How different is it for you facing four or five different pitchers in the game than facing the starter three or four times?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: How different is it?   
 Q.  Yes.  
DIDI GREGORIUS: I mean, we face these guys a lot.  So I wouldn't say it's like a really big difference because you face them a lot throughout the whole season, and you watch videos of your at-bats and see how they're going to attack you and just make adjustments to that and just get ready.  There's only so much we can control when we get in the box, and we can control who we're going to put out there and who we're going to face.   
 Q.  The Sox pushed Porcello back to Game 4, which means Nathan Eovaldi is going to start tomorrow.  He's had some success against you.  What have you seen from him that you think has led to success against you this year?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: He's throwing his cutters more than he has before.  I mean, he hasn't thrown as much different, but I think the only pitch he's been using more now is his cutter.   
 Q.  Didi, I don't know if you saw, but Judge walked by the Red Sox clubhouse yesterday playing "New York, New York" on a loud speaker.  What do you think of that?  Was there a message being sent there, do you think?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: I heard about it too, but I wasn't with him.  He went on the first bus.  I went on the second bus.  I don't know what message, but I mean, we just go out there and play the game.  The rivalry is always there, so it's always good to have a little bit of fun with it, I guess.   
 Q.  Does that add to the fun?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: Oh, yeah, definitely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT