WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL A
March 8, 2017
Didi Gregorius
Wladimir Balentien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Netherlands - 6, Chinese Taipei - 5
Q. Your last double, what were you looking for in that instance and what pitch was it?
DIDI GREGORIUS: Just looking for a fastball.  I mean, you're going up there to an bat to look for a fastball down the middle and adjust to that.  So threw me a fastball away and I was able to keep it fair down the left field line to tie the game.
Q. You had a great performance today, both of you.  Could you evaluate the performance of the pitchers of Chinese Taipei in your strategy today for this game?
WLADIMIR BALENTIEN: Well, they have a great team over there.  They have great pitching.  They throw the ball very well today.  But I have to give the credit to our hitters.  We never give up.  We fight all the way.  We put great at bats together and Didi come up clutch.  Myself, get a couple hits where we really need them to keep something going.  All around we did a great job as hitters today.
Q. Can you talk about your offensive approach as a team to the Chinese Taipei team?
DIDI GREGORIUS: Well, you know, it all started early in the morning.  We all talked how we were going to approach these guys.  You know, we always want to attack the fastball, so I think we tried to stick to our plan, drive the ball whenever we wanted to drive it and keep the ball in play.  They had a great pitching staff.
They shut us down a couple innings, but we managed to fight back, because we always want to battle, never give up.  We have a great team.  Everybody's pushing each other, help each other, everybody can go the right way.  I mean, that took everything right there to get a walk off today.
Q. When Simmons got the hit up the middle, what were you thinking running out of the dugout?
DIDI GREGORIUS: I was thinking the game was over.  We thought it was going to be the game winning hit but we got the bases loaded, you don't want to make the out at home.  It was a good decision to stop him.  We celebrated a little bit too early but we waited and we got it after.  We got it when it matters.
Q. Your emotions, feelings after helping the team making it to Tokyo.
DIDI GREGORIUS: It's not just me.  It's a team.  If I don't get to bat with runners on, nothing would have happened.  Guys got on base and I got a base hit and we tied the game and we went up, and I mean, that's what matters.  Everybody's helping each other out.  So everybody gets on base, because everything counts.  Every little thing in the game counts.  It's not just about me.  It's a team.  So everybody did their best, so I think everyone will say the same thing, that's what we did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT