WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL A
March 7, 2017
Didi Gregorius
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You played and had a practice game, so can you share with us about the turf and ground?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: So the infield is a little bit different than what we are used to in the States.  It's a little bit hard, but it's playable, and it plays fast, too.   
 Q.  You prepared in the major league spring training, and you had jet lag, but still you are here.  So what is the reason to be part of this game?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: So it means a lot to me because I'm representing my country.  So it's the first time for me.  And it's always what I wanted to do since I was little, get to represent your country wherever you go.  Used to play for Team Curacao you and now that I'm here, playing with guys that I played with when I was young, like six years old.   
It's amazing to be here, and it's kind of like the same for spring training for me because it's at the same time.  I mean, that's basically it.   
 Q.  There are many shortstops and you've changed positions.  Are you familiar with your new position?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: Well, not with DH.  When I was little and growing up, I played second base, shortstop and third base.  If they put me in one of those decisions, I'll play it.  So I have nothing against that.  We're a team.  That's why we're here, so everybody helps each other and give each other playing time.  That's what we want.  If I play shortstop, I play shortstop, second base.  For me, it doesn't really matter.   
 Q.  During the practice game, you had a game with KBO army and KBO police.  What was your impression about the Korean baseball?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: It's actually really good, Korean baseball teams.  Both teams played really good against us.  We won one and lost one, so just shows you that guys have a lot of talent and everything, and everybody is giving their best.  They just go out there and play.  That's what we got, that's what they got, and they go out there and play every day with it.  I think they are doing a really great job what they are doing here.   
 Q.  You mentioned young players.  Young players, do you think during this WBC, can they grow up?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: Can you rephrase that question?   
 Q.  When a young player plays in this tournament, does that help them grow up?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: Oh, yeah, definitely.  I mean, it helps them grow up because you know, you get guys that played in major leagues and you get guys that are coming up in the minor leagues, so it gives you more experience.  Gives you a little bit of an advantage whenever you go back to your season.  So everybody has a chance.  If you go out there and play your best, I think everybody has a chance.   
 Q.  In the exhibition game in the major leagues, you already appeared five times.  So did that make it difficult to prepare for this game, and how about the condition for now?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: I mean, I've been practicing since October 27.  So the season ended October 2.  I've been up and going like right away.  So I've been preparing myself for the WBC and for the spring training season.  I'm actually feeling really good right now, so I feel like I'm ready to play.  Whenever I'm out there, I'm going to play out there.   
 Q.  The shortstop for the Yankees was Jeter.  Is there pressure for you, and what kind of discussions do you have with Jeter?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: I don't think it's a pressure, but if you put pressure on yourself, there's going to be pressure.  But if you just play the game, you'll be fine.  I think that's what I'm trying to do, and try to be myself not try to be somebody else.  Jeter played there for a long, successful career.  I think like, what, 20 years, or more, I don't know.  But he's an icon.  He's a legend, and so everybody knows about him.  I'm just the guy to follow his footsteps and be the best me when I can go out there.   
I mean, me and him talk.  We talk once in a while.  We don't talk every day, but he gives me some advice and how to prepare for everything and handle everything in New York, so I appreciate that a lot.   
 Q.  In one hour, you will have a team with Korea and Korea has already lost one game.  It is very special for the Korean team, and I think it will be exciting.  For the Korean team, what expectations do you have?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: I'm expecting everybody to come out there and play the game.  Whoever plays the best wins the game.  I know they lost yesterday in extra innings.  I was watching the game.  But you've still got to go out there and play the game.  You're not going to give up and we're not going to give up, either.  This is our first game and we want to start winning the first one, and then we go after that.  We're going to play our game, and whoever plays the best, wins.   
 Q.  If you can talk about your impression of Korea, if you've seen anything besides the ballpark and the hotel; have you had a chance to go anywhere, or have you mostly just been ballpark and hotel?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: So I think our second day here, we went to the Buddha temple.  I can't remember the city or the street it was on.  But we went to the Buddha temple with some of the guys and we actually took pictures and we walked around, learning some words.  And so it's actually really awesome just to be here to experience this country.   
And it's just something, it's the first time here for me, so I went out and explored, because you don't know how many times you get to come down here to Korea.  It was something great to walk around.   
 Q.  Do you know any Korean players?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: Ji Man Choi.  Yeah, I know Ji Man Choi.  We just got him.  He's a really fun guy.  He's a really fun guy to walk around and talk to in the clubhouse.  He told me when I get down here, just say, "Aleumdaun."  It's like beautiful or something like that (laughing).  Am I right?  Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you know any other words?  
DIDI GREGORIUS: (Speaking Korean).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT