INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 25, 2017
James Blackmon, Jr.
Thomas Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Indiana - 63, Northwestern - 62   
 Q.  Question about last play of the game.  
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: Yeah, that was in my mind, just be aggressive and make a good play.  I heard the bench calling timeout, but I was already in my move so I just went with it and tried to be confident.   
 Q.  Question about the last play.  
JAMES BLACKMON JR.: First I was coming down and they collapsed on me dribbling, and I saw two or three guys coming at me, so I knew TB was going to be at the right spot and that's where we work on.  He wedged and it was a perfect play.   
 Q.  What were you looking for before that final play?  
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: Just really get a stop, whatever it took.  We were looking to tie it up for McIntosh and put pressure on him.  And we played a great defensive possession and it allowed us to come up with a rebound.   
 Q.  Thomas, what were you thinking when the ball was hanging up in the air?  
THOMAS BRYANT: Just really staying in the follow through, Just staying into the shot.  Coach Crean preaches that when we're shooting and on the line as well.   
 Q.  From a confidence standpoint especially going (indiscernible)?  
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: It really gets our confidence going you know.  We always stick with it.  We know that we're right there.  The games we've lost have come down to one or two possessions just like tonight.  So it was good to get this one going.   
 Q.  What about sending a guy like Collin Hartman out on a win on senior night, how satisfying is that for you guys?  
THOMAS BRYANT: That feels good because Collin has done so much for this program, for us as a team; and to go out there and win for him, you know, since he couldn't be out there with us, it means a lot to us, especially for him.   
 Q.  What about (indiscernible)?  
THOMAS BRYANT: That was crazy.  I didn't know that was going to happen.  So I was shocked.   
 Q.  The last possession, were you expecting to get the ball, or what did you think was going to happen?  
THOMAS BRYANT: I thought James was going to take the shot, so I was really getting ready for rebounding position.  I knew I could get on the backside.  He was up and watching.  I was going the backside.  And when James did a hesitation, came through, I was like oh, it's open right here.  So I'm just going to keep wedging him out and just be on that backside, which he dumped it off to me and it was a good pass.   
 Q.  Talk about the lift Devonte gave you, the scoring (indiscernible)?  
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: He brought a lot of confidence to the game.  He made confident plays and big plays and it got us going.  So I feel like he really gave us a lift off the bench and even the other guys did as well.   
 Q.  You guys ended the game on an 8-0 run (indiscernible)?  
THOMAS BRYANT: Staying together defensively.  We knew that we were down and we had to come back.  So it all started with a defensive mindset, just getting the rebounds and getting up and go.  Our best offense is when we get out and go.  Get out and we get a rebound.  So that was our big thing.  And when we got into the offense and getting a good shot.   
 Q.  Is there a feeling of I guess relief or anything just (indiscernible) having the confidence in a game like that?  
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.: I think it's more getting our confidence going, just like I said before.  The games we lost were right there.  So just looking at the film and things that can get us better and carry it out through the next game.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT