UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 6, 2016
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk a little, some good memories, what do you remember most of that hole-in-one?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: The hole, the ball get in the hole.  I see the ball, yeah.  That's a good memory.   
 Q.  And what did you do with the gold ball?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: I keep it.  It's good stuff for my golf life.  Because 2007, I win the Order of Merit and Singapore, Masters.  That's very good stuff for me in that time, and now, ten years.   
 Q.  What does it mean for you to be playing the Hong Kong Open every year, a home event?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: Because this course is many memory.  It's good memory.  When I'm amateur, I start playing Hong Kong Open, and until now, about 20 years.  When I'm amateur, I still already play the Hong Kong Open.  Many good friends in Hong Kong, and also my wife is Hong Kong.  My kids, Hong Kong ID.  So like my second home.   
 Q.  So obviously you know the golf course very well?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: Yeah.  Very challenging.  Looks easy.   
 Q.  Does it give you an advantage?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: I think more important, the feeling in the golf course, because narrow fairway, small green.  Yeah, it's I think very consistent.  Because more top players here, and it's the last Asian Tour event, yeah, in Asia.   
 Q.  When you look back to 2016, have you been happy with how you've performed, how you've played this year?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: Yeah, very happy, because golf always up and down, but before I always try my best, yeah, what I want to do.  That's my choice.  So I'm happy that in the future, I think also is target, also is professional tour.  Also target is win the tournament and do some golf charity in China.   
 Q.  Of course this week when you play, you'll try to win the tournament?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: Always thinking but step by step.  First day, feeling so-so.   
 Q.  What do you mean?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: A little bit change swing, and still -- I have to make that good plan for the next few years, so something in my mind.   
 Q.  Why do you try to change the swing, to be better the next five or ten years of your career?  Is that the reason why you changed your swing?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: Because I want better, yeah.  So have to change something, yeah, because this age, first is swing and second is the birdie.  You have to get more energy, because getting old now.  I want to see like Thongchai Jaidee, so tough, he's idol, really, how to make my golf life longer.  How to find the secret.  Yeah, I want to get the way.   
 Q.  You must have been happy that China finished second in the World Cup the last two weeks.  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: Yeah, of course.   
 Q.  What does that tell you about golf in China?  Zhang Lianwei, you, started coming up in China, and the young players started coming out.  Does it make you satisfied and happy that the young players are coming out?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: Yeah, of course, because golf is very young when I start golf in China.  There's not many young players, and the Tour is small, but until now, we are getting better and more young players.   
So more players in the international tournaments, they get the trophy, that's good for China golf, because we want more and more champions in the tour.  To Li Haotong, he's good.  I know him growing from a little kid.  He just turned pro, and step by step now, World Cup, second, that's very good for China golf.  Also for me, it's many good players coming up.   
 Q.  Going back to what you say about trying to change to play like older like Thongchai, have you spoken to Thongchai, as well, about what he does to make him become like what he is now?  Have you talked to Thongchai before about what he does?  
LIANG WEN-CHONG: I always try to observe Thongchai and how consistent he is and how like Thongchai is so into golf.  Yeah, that's what I think that Thongchai, he's so strong.  That's the reason I think, is he's so into golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT