OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 26, 2009
Zhang Lian-Wei
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CALVIN KOH: Opening round 65, you must be pleased with your play today. Maybe just share with us your thoughts. 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: It's a very good round today compared to last year. It's two strokes better than last year on the first day, and I'm quite pleased with it. And Liang has been putting very well today and we are both pleased about the round. 
 CALVIN KOH: And playing in front of the home crowd this week, seeing such a huge following must give you added motivation to play so well. 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: We are very glad to see lots of golf fans at Mission Hills watching us play on the first day. Hopefully tomorrow we would like to see more and more fans come out to the course and support Team China. 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: On the 18th hole at that time, we were 7-under, and both of us wanted to make a birdie and hopefully get to minus 8 to get us into the top five on the leaderboard, but unfortunately we both parred the last hole and it was just 7-under result on the first day. 
 Even though we are playing in our the home country, but Zhang is quite surprised to see Team Ireland had 14-under on the first day, and I would like to maybe have a chat with team Argentina and ask them, how did they make such a good score today! Even though we have played together, it's our fourth time playing the World Cup, the first time in 2001, the World Cup in Japan, but we believe we can improve our result in the next few days. 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: The difference in the golf standard in China compared to the major powers of the world, and I would like to have more support for the junior golf development in China. Hopefully more and more juniors will have better training, better golf courses, and more golf facilities to be able to practice and maybe in 2016 or in the future World Cup or Olympic Games, we will see much better golfers representing China. 
 Representing China at this World Cup, it's such an honour for both of us, and you can see on our uniforms, we have the China flag on our shirts and it's such an honour to be representing our country. 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: It's such an honour to represent China playing the World Cup, especially today because it's been a dream and it finally came true, I can see the China flag on my uniform. Hopefully with 7-under today, we will see a better score tomorrow. 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Through the first half of the round we didn't take advantage of a lot of birdie chances and we only managed to get 3- or 4-under after almost ten holes. But over the last nine holes, we tried harder and harder and with a little bit of luck we managed to have 7-under by the end of the day and we are quite pleased. 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: Overall today on the front nine, especially on No. 8, which is a fairly easy hole, but unfortunately both of us had bogey. But even though we really tried hard, toward the end of the round, we had a little bit more luck, and also, we tried our best. So we are still very pleased with 7-under today. 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Tomorrow's foursomes, it's going to be a lot more challenging because we will be two players playing with just one ball and it's going to require a lot more team work and better chemistry, so we are probably going to discuss a little bit more tomorrow during the round and hopefully we will have a better result. 

 Q. What do you think of golf being in the Olympics?
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: It's still seven years away from the 2016 games. We are not sure what the system will be at the Olympics, if it's going to be individual or team or a stroke-play. Hopefully this World Cup, and also golf development in China, especially this World Cup, with a team like we have this week, will have better preparation for the Olympic Games coming up in 2016. 

 Q. What strategy will you use in tomorrow's foursomes?
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Tomorrow, it's foursomes and we will use Titleist I use normally. For the last two or three World Cups, we both prefer to use that golf ball for the foursome.

 Q. What did you hit on the last?
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: And on the last hole, a 5-iron from the fairway bunker and tried to get on the green. 
 CALVIN KOH: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT