UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 20, 2008
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SHENTON GOMEZ: Thank you for joining us. Tell us about your round. 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: I felt very good on my putting and I felt very good today. I tried to be very positive and just take each hole step-by-step. My performance today was very steady.

 Q. On your blog, you have five weeks in a row, and then Singapore and Hong Kong, how do you recover?
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: I have been away for seven weeks. I am quite tried, and tried to recover. 
My performance in Singapore was not steady. The third round was good, but the fourth round, mentally and psychologically was not. I tried to be aggressive and eager to win, but not quite steady.
My coach is here this week, and he is asking me to be patient and perform better.

 Q. You had a good condition and performance level in India; is that correct?
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: First I want to say thank you to the media for keeping track of me!
 My performance was very good today, but there are still three days to go. I try to have my best performance every day. 
 The golf course is very short but the fairways are narrow and you have to be careful each day and each fairway.

 Q. How did you feel about the crowd following around, and does it make you play better? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Of course, I had facial and eye contact with some friends, plus I could hear their voices, as well. There was some interference but just tried to play my own game and avoid the interference and try to stay patient. 

 Q. What happened with the bogey on the front nine, your back nine? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: I missed my second shot. Luckily it bounced on a cement irrigation box and bounced on the green, and then I 3-putted for bogey. 

 Q. What do you think about possibly being the first Asian player to win this tournament ten years? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: I will try to be patient the next three days coming up and try my best each day.
 Last week, an Asian player held the trophy in Singapore, so it could be another possibility for an Asian player to win this tournament.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT