BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2008
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Is this your first time you're playing in Korea? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  This year will be the first time I'm competing in Korea. 

 Q.  How do you feel about your form coming into competition? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  I feel confident and it's been good so far but it depends on the playing conditions and if there is strong wind. 

 Q.  Have you played with the Korean players before, and what do you feel about their strong lineup this week? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  I have no doubt the field this week is strong, especially from the Korean players.  I guess it comes down to each individual player.  They have to work hard and play to their own game. 

 Q.  How do you feel about the standards of golf between Korea and China? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  Of course, Korea started earlier but that is not to say that China is not catching up.  It will be quite interesting to see how the two standards in these two countries are matching up. 

 Q.  Two players that made it to the Asian Tour this year have made the cut from Qualifying School that are from China.  Do you have any advice? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  Golf is a sport in which you have to continually prove yourself and you have to play to each of your strengths.  There will be a lot of up-and-downs, but you have to take it -- to how you are going to improve your game. 

 Q.  You have played with K.J. before in Hong Kong.  What are your thoughts about meeting up with him again this week? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  I'm obviously looking forward to playing with K.J. again.  He has a big, strong support here and he's a friendly guy and I'm excited to play with him this week. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts about the golf course, and is there any difference between the golf course here in Korea and the golf course in China? 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  The golf course is looking pretty good, but the only thing that will affect play will be the wind conditions.  On the greens, the ball will move faster, so it really depends on that and how it will affect play. 
 The difference between the golf course in Korea and China is that each golf course has different design, different challenges, so they are all different. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT