OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 24, 2007
Zhang Lian-Wei
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  We have Team China here this afternoon, 5-under par 67 in the four-balls.  Your assessment with today's round?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Overall I'm quite pleased with today's round.  As a team, we had 5-under and we hit some good shots and also a few bad shots, but overall, I'm very pleased.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Can we have some opening comments from you, Liang?   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  We had a pretty good start in today's round, but after a few holes, we kind of slowed down, even though we tried to be more aggressive.   
 I personally toward the end of the round, the last few holes, I was a bit frustrated because I didn't perform so well, and as a team, we couldn't really manage to get more birdies toward the end.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Six behind the present leaders, what do you think about the lead going into tomorrow's more difficult foursomes?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Right now, there is a six-stroke difference between us and the leaders, but anything can happen on the last day having the foursomes playing on the last day.  If the we can a birdie and the leader gets a bogey on one hole, that's a two-shot swing, and in three holes, you can make up six strokes fairly easy.   
 But of course, you anything can happen on the last day.  As a team, we'll try our best and hopefully we will perform well.   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  I'm going to try my best to play well tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  After watching you play the last couple of days, seems like you're struggling a little on the putting green with the putter.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Recently my putting is not as good as what it used to be, but sometimes I make some good putts and sometimes I miss.   
 Like today on the last hole on the 18th, I almost made it, but that's the way the game of golf is.  The putting is just not as consistent as what it used to be.   
  
  Q.  The last three days, there are some teams that are wearing pretty much the same colour and look like the same uniform; will you be wearing something very similar maybe colour coordinated for tomorrow's round?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  (Laughing) I would love to wear something red, maybe the national flag on the shirt.  But the thing is, we are wearing different brands and we have different sponsors, so the only thing that we have in common as far as sponsors are the clubs.  Our golf equipment are both sponsored by Homma.   
 But tomorrow we will try to match up and be colour coordinated, red top, black pants, black shoes and white cap and hopefully that will be more like a team colours for the final round, China colours.  (Applause)   
  
  Q.  On the last three days, during the last three days, you seem to have a very good start, especially on the front nine, but once you go to the back nine, you seem to have a bit of trouble.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  I don't know why, what's the reason why the last three days we always seem to have some trouble on the back nine, especially 12, 13, 14.  Like today, I had a really good chance on No. 16 but still didn't make it.  Maybe because I didn't give a little prayer to the statute, so maybe I will try to have better luck tomorrow and do a little bit of praying when I get on to the back nine.   
  
  Q.  On hole No. 13, you had a long discussion before the birdie putt.  It's one of the best holes you had on today's round.   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  We always try to discuss how the ball is going to break, what the line is before every putt, but overall today's putting wasn't as good as the last two days.   
 So hopefully tomorrow, we will perform much better on the greens.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Thank you very much and all the best for tomorrow's final.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT