BMW MASTERS
October 26, 2012
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LIANG WEN‑CHONG:   There are quite a lot of top European players this week, and with your good performance, five to 6‑, 7‑under, it's not that tough to get.   But today, I missed a few chances, especially a short putt and the approaching shot quite close to the flag. 
So hopefully this weekend I will play a bit more aggressive and try to get a better result.   Maybe go toward 6‑, 7‑under. 
I'm very excited about birdie on No. 10.   The ball landed on the right corner and the flag is on the left corner, and it's about a 30‑yard putt.   I counted; it's 29, exactly 29 yards, and I made that long putt.   I didn't even remember when was the last time I made such a long putt, and really kind of helped me to relax and a lot of pressure was relieved.   It's nice to have a long putt and make such a wonderful birdie. 
I feel younger now because my driver is going about 300 yards.   It's not only the driver, I also spent some time in the gym working out and everything worked together and I'm really happy and proud to be able to hit the driver so long and straight, too.   
I have known my coach for over ten years, and we've worked together since 2007.   Kyle was the Asian Tour coach for over 15 years, and he's also a member of the Australian PGA Hall of Fame.   I remember the best experience was when I played the British Open at Royal Birkdale, before the tournament I wasn't in my best condition and I made a phone call to my coach and asked him if he could give any help. 
Next thing, the coach just bought a ticket and flew to Liverpool to meet up with me.   I felt very excited and played well that week.   To me, it's like a relationship almost like a father and son instead of just a coach and student.   This week, he's also here. 
The coach is 72 years old, and we still kind of fight with each other.   It's like good buddies, and we never really finish an 18‑hole match between the coach and the student.   Nobody wants to lose, so they never finish the whole 18‑hole match. 
Even though I haven't won for almost two years before the Nanshan Masters two weeks ago, I didn't feel like it was really a slump because from 2004 to 2010, I spent over 30 weeks a year traveling all over the world playing. 
But in 2010 I decided to spend more time with my wife and kids and I got my whole team around me, manager, coaches, fitness trainer, and after two years, I finally won the Nanshan Masters two weeks ago and feel it was a great success, not because of me but a whole team effort.   I feel like the next five years will be my prime coming and I hope I can take advantage of the next five to ten years and will have an even better performance. 
I would also like to see the game of golf become a lot more popular so that more people will come in and support, especially the local players, and support the whole tournament.   When I play overseas in Japan or Korea, even though the prize money is not like this week, maybe only 1.5 million dollars or 2 million dollars, but they have a lot of local fans supporting local players.   In China, we just need to have more people get in the game of golf, and also, coming and enjoying the tournament and support people like me and the other local players, as well. 

Q.   Just wondering, talking about the popularity of golf over here, with the inclusion of golf in the Olympics in 2016, do you think that that will increase the awareness of golf here in China, because the Olympics are a big deal over here.   And also, is that one of your big targets in the next four or five years to play at the Olympics in Rio? 
LIANG WEN‑CHONG:   Golf will be a lot more popular in China and the China Golf Association will put a lot more effort trying to train the players and whoever will represent China in the 2016 Olympic Games will hopefully have a good result in the game of golf. 
Personally, I will just play my tournaments and hopefully have good results before 2016 and it would be an honor for me to represent China in 2016 playing the Olympic Games in Rio.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT