OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 27, 2011
Liang Wen-Chong
Zhang Xin-Jun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CALVIN KOH:   Many thanks, Team China, for coming for today's press conference.   Just share with us your thoughts for the week so far. 
LIANG WEN CHONG:   I am so grateful for the support of the CGA and the fans.   This is the first time we are representing China as professional golfers, and our teamwork over the four days, even though the score is not what we were hoping for, we think we can do better but we have learned a lot from that.   And in the future, whether it's as a team or individually, we will play much better in the near future. 
ZHANG XIN‑JUN:   This is my first year as a professional representing China playing in this World Cup event.   It's a very unbelievable experience.   Even though I didn't perform as good as I thought I could, the result is still very satisfying.   Hopefully in the future if I can get the chance to team up with Liang again representing China, we would love to have a better result and a better finish. 
I have learned a lot during the week, teaming up with Liang, whether it's technical parts or the mental toughness.   In the future, whatever I have learned from this experience, I can use that on my own individual competition or in the team events. 
LIANG WEN CHONG:   This is the fifth time I've represented China playing in the World Cup, and playing in Hainan Island this year, I saw a lot of new faces in the spectators during the week, and that means more and more people will get to know the game of golf and maybe get the chance to experience the game of golf.   And hopefully with all of the World Cups being held in China, more and more people in China will be able to get into playing the game of golf. 
With the Olympic Games in 2016, we'll have golf as an official event.   More and more younger generations of players will be able to hopefully one day like us represent China and hopefully they will get the chance throughout their own hard work to get Tour cards overseas and compete more in the big international events. 

Q.   You've played in five World Cups and there's a lot of discussion about the future of the World Cup and which direction it should go regarding the format, the time of the year, and where the World Cup should travel around the world.   What is your opinion on those three factors? 
LIANG WEN CHONG:   There's no decision been made yet for the Olympic Games what kind of format.   I would like to see the World Cup format similar to how the format will be announced for the Olympics, so that will be a great preparation to prepare for the Olympic Games. 
I would like to see the World Cup stay in China because there are a lot of corporations, a lot of sponsors, and China has the ability to host such a wonderful event.   Even though maybe after a few years, it will be like the Olympic Games and move around the world, but in the meantime, I would like to see the World Cup being held in China.   I am very grateful that Mission Hills and the CGA will be able to have the World Cup staying here for 12 years. 

Q.   What's the difference between the China team and the top leading teams in this World Cup?   What's necessary for the Chinese team to be able to catch up and be able to compete with the highest level? 
LIANG WEN CHONG:   After four rounds of golf, I believe the foursomes, we performed very well and we are very satisfied with our result. 
But four‑balls, it's not what we were hoping for.   There's still quite a big gap between the Chinese team and the other leading team.   But in order for them to be able to compete in the higher levels, we believe more and more Chinese players should be able to get overseas tour cards, such as the Japanese Tour or The European Tour or even the US PGA TOUR.   Even though we have a lot of big events in China, the more we play, the better experience we will get. 
So more local Chinese players will have to try to go over seas and get their tour cards.   That's the best way to improve.

Q.   What sort of support teams do you have? 
LIANG WEN CHONG:   I have a wonderful team and assistant to help me around the world and playing different golf tournaments.   Of course, with all of the help and support from my home course, Chung Shan Hot Springs, that's a big reason why I have what I've achieved so far.   Hopefully whatever I can accumulate with my experience, I will pass that along to the younger generation. 
ZHANG XIN‑JUN:   Right now I am with the national team.   Even though I don't have my own agent or other team members, but the national team takes care of everything.   All I have to do is focus on competing in the tournaments.   Maybe one day, I might have my own team, but no matter whether it's the national team or my personal team relationship, I would like to see more support from other people so that I can compete in the highest level. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT