OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 26, 2011
Liang Wen-Chong
Zhang Xin-Jun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CALVIN KOH:     Thanks for coming, Team China.   If you can start with telling us about your rounds of 68 today.   
LIANG WEN‑CHONG:   We had a really good starting hole, we had a good birdie, but from No.2 for the next few holes, maybe they were a bit too aggressive and then they kind of struggled.   So we didn't do too well.   
We had two birdies coming back from 16 and 17, but unfortunately on the last hole, they dropped another shot.   So overall, it's not best result that we were hoping for, after a really good round yesterday, we were hoping to climb up the leaderboard, but today, it's a bit of a‑‑ not up to what we were hoping for.   We are going to try to talk about this and then see what we are going to do for the foursomes tomorrow.   
ZHANG XIN‑JUN:   Even though we had a really good start on the first hole with a birdie, we were both trying to save par from No.2 onward to No. 6, even though we managed to do that.   But after two birdies on 7 and 8, I 3‑putted for bogey on No.9 which started a feeling of going back on the back nine.   
There were a few holes we had very good chances of getting birdies, but we couldn't manage to get it, even though we had birdies on 16 and 17.   But still, both of us got a bogey on the last hole.   It was not the best finish and overall, I am not very pleased with how I performed today.   Hopefully tomorrow will be a better day.  
CALVIN KOH:   Yesterday you mentioned you were hoping the crowds to come in to spur you on and motivate you.   Your thoughts on the home fans today?   
LIANG WEN‑CHONG:   I'm very grateful a lot of fans came in and supported and gave us a lot of cheers, especially when we had birdies on No.1 and 7 and 8.   But I let the fans down on No.9 with the bogey, and on the back nine, we both had quite a few chances, but we tried to get the fans more excited.   But we only managed two birdies.   
ZHANG XIN‑JUN:   I'm very thankful that so many fans came to the golf course today to support us.   Hopefully tomorrow there will be more people coming in to enjoy.   I don't feel like that's a pressure to me because I enjoy more and more people watching.   Why I didn't perform so well, I'm not in the best condition today.   There's not much pressure added to me from the fans here.     
   
 Q.   What are you going to talk about tonight, preparing for tomorrow's final round?   
ZHANG XIN‑JUN:   At dinner to flight we are going to discuss so far the conclusion for the first few days.   This is the first time we have paired for the World Cup and hopefully tomorrow we will get a better result.   
   
 Q.   The CEO of OneAsia resigned yesterday.   What is the future of OneAsia regarding their relationship with golf tournaments in China?   
LIANG WEN‑CHONG:   Hopefully everything will be managed by the CGA and I would like to see more and more a domestic tour.   
   
 Q.   Which format do you like more, foursomes or the four‑ball?   And also, there are quite a lot of students coming in and supporting the team.   Do you enjoy having so many students?   
LIANG WEN‑CHONG:   We both really enjoy a lot that the students come in and watch the game.   Hopefully in the future more tournaments will be held in China and more beginners or people who don't know much about golf can come to the course and get to know the game.   
Regarding the foursomes, I prefer the foursomes because we have a really good result.   In four‑balls, both days we only did 68, 4‑under.   Hopefully two years from now in the next World Cup, we can get a better result in the four‑balls.   
ZHANG XIN‑JUN:   After the first hole and the birdie by Liang, I tried to be really hard and aggressive and hopefully get birdies starting on No.2, and maybe I was trying too hard.   All I think about is to go for it, and I'm not playing too smart.   We did not have a very good result and had to save a lot of pars starting from No.2.   
So it's pretty much my own condition, maybe mentally I need to learn how to play this kind of format and hopefully tonight at dinner, we will have a discussion with the team and hopefully I can learn more and have a better result tomorrow.   
LIANG WEN‑CHONG:   This is the first time we have paired together.   In the past I have played with Zhang Lian‑Wei.   We had a few good rounds but also a few mediocre rounds.   
Even though Zhang mentions he's not in the best form, we are both learning and getting a lot of good experience.   Hopefully in the future when we are teaming up and representing China, we will have a better result.   
I got a message from my coach, Cal, and my coach told me just don't ever say sorry to your partner.   Just relax and enjoy the game and try the best you can, and that's what we are hoping to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT