WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2000
Vladimir Voltchkov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Vladimir.  
 
 
Q.  How does it feel to be the first person since John McEnroe as a qualifier to reach the semifinals of Wimbledon?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I don't know if I have realised it yet.  I mean, I'm happy.  I'm happy with the way I finished the match.  It just feels great.  I guess I just keep I hope rolling. 
 
Q.  Was McEnroe anything of a hero to you?  Do you know much about him?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  Well, I definitely knew John when he was playing.  I watched him on TV.  I was too young then.  But he was somebody that you would always like to watch because he was a great entertainer on the court.  He had his own way of playing.  I started I think two days ago, somebody said, "If you make semis, then you'll tie his record."  It was again a good boost for me.  I kept it in my head also.  
 
Q.  Do you have much in common with him, do you think?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  He's lefty, I'm righty.  He's serve-and-volleyer, I probably stay at the back more.  I guess there is no really comparison.  It's difficult to compare the styles of game or anything.  I guess the only thing we have in common now is this result here. 
 
Q.  How do you think your victory will be seen in Minsk?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I hope and I'm pretty sure it will be very nice.  People are supporting me.  The president of the association is here.  I'm sure it's going to be great. 
 
Q.  What are your thoughts on facing Pete?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  To play Pete, the guy who won the tournament I think five out of last six years, maybe more, I'm not sure, to play him in the semifinals of Wimbledon, what else do you wish for?  I mean, it's like a dream come true now.  Now I can say it, yes.  Before this match, it was a chance that you should take.  Now it's just you go out there and you enjoy every minute of being on Centre Court, playing against him.  
 
Q.  You said you were a baseliner. 
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  Yes. 
 
Q.  When you were a kid, were you dreaming of Wimbledon or were you dreaming of another Grand Slam?  Is it a surprise for you?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  For some reason I felt that Wimbledon had something special for me.  Of course, there's another three Grand Slams.  All of them are great tournaments.  But since I won here as junior, and that gave me another hope that I guess this is going to be my Slam; this is where I have the best chance to do well.  It turned out to be right.  
 
Q.  Can you explain why?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I guess it's pretty simple.  The surface suits my game perfectly.  I like to hit the ball flat.  I like to have the ball pretty low.  I have trouble playing the high shots.  On the grass, the ball really stays low.  I'm going for my shots.  We practise indoors a lot.  I guess a combination of all that is the result. 
 
Q.  What in Pete's game can you possibly attack?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  That's a good question (smiling).  I mean, we're talking about probably the greatest player of all times here.  It's difficult to find any weaknesses.  Pete is a kind of a player who, if he's in a good mood, he can play unbelievable in any part of the game.  I just hope to go out there, to play my game good.  If it's good enough to make a competition for him, I'm really happy.  
 
Q.  How has your '96 junior win helped you this year?  Has it helped you?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  Every match is a different story.  Of course, every tournament is a different story.  But, of course, winning here as a junior, it makes you feel  -- you just know that you can play on grass in the men's tennis, as well.  I guess four years passed since that time, a lot of things changed, and I can't really say that something like winning there gave me like unbelievable boost for doing well here.  
 
Q.  Did you expect to have better results faster than you have?  Did you expect to get to this point faster?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  This is the thing.  I guess I was expecting results quicker.  When you expect something to come, then perhaps you put too much pressure on yourself.  You start to do some things wrong.  You really have to, I think, really learn to get better every day from match to match, really concentrate on making your game suitable for a high level.  Once you know that you can play some shots, once you know you have the game, it's just a matter of time of arriving to the level where you think you belong. 
 
Q.  I noticed you were wearing adidas shorts and a Nike top.  Is there a reason for that?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  Is there a reason for that?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  Yes, there is a reason for that.  I don't have a clothing company.  Whatever I have, I had some stuff left from last year, I had these shorts I guess.  The shorts actually were from Marat Safin, because I came here without any new clothes.  
 
Q.  What was better, the Nike shorts or the adidas tops?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I guess shorts and tops did their job pretty well. 
 
Q.  Where are you staying? 
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  We're renting a flat here.  Max Mirnyi originally rented the flat first.  He said, "You're welcome to come."  He was playing Nottingham in the week of qualifying.  We moved in there.  He came back from Nottingham.  We stayed together.  We had a good company there  - him, his father, my father, me, another guy.  We really enjoyed it.  Max left back home to get ready for Gstaad.  We still play in that statistic. 
 
Q.  As a qualifier, did you plan to be here or did you plan something else after the qualifications?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I entered the tournament next week in Bristol, in England. 
 
Q.  So you would have stayed to practise here, for example?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  The thing is, I had a difficult financial situation before coming here.  I couldn't really afford.  Let's say, if I lost in the first or second round, I probably would go back home, practise on synthetic grass, then back for Bristol.  Again, things change (laughter).  
 
Q.  About your match today, it might seem critical to say that you perhaps weren't at your best out there.  Would you agree that you made perhaps too many mistakes?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I can say that I didn't do a great job on my serve.  With the rest of my game, I'm pretty satisfied.  I mean, come on, I came here to play quallies, was hoping to win a few matches, to make some money to travel.  Now I'm here in the semifinals.  I cannot wish for more than that.  But again, if you start to think that you're playing Pete, what you can possibly do against him, then of course the serve was not good today.  I was not satisfied at all.  But, again, I'm feeling my shoulder a little bit stiffer.  I'm just going to take whatever it takes, make some massage, try to relax, get it ready for the match coming up. 
 
Q.  Were you approached by the adidas or Nike guys?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  No, not really.  I was not a approached by those people yet.  Nike was kind enough to give me two pairs of shoes for my match today.  I had one pair of shoes from adidas as well last week.  
 
Q.  Which fit better?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  To be honest, they both feel good.  But when you go on the court, you don't really think about which ones is better.  You go out there, whatever you have with you, you try to win. 
 
Q.  In view of the fact that you've had sort of financial worries, as you say, not quite sure what your budget is, living in the flat, have you been able to go out to restaurants?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I'm sure after already winning a match in the quallies, you can afford to go to restaurant, if you want.  My dad is a really good cook.  Really, we stay at home most of the time.  We just go out for a walk.  I went to see Gladiator four times already (laughter).  I prefer to spend my money there.  
 
Q.  Roughly how much money have you earned in your career?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I don't know.  I really don't know how much now.  You have to open up I think the player's guide.  It says.  
 
Q.  What will you do with the hundreds of thousands of dollars you will have earned for your effort here?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I'll think about that after I'm done here.  I don't know yet. 
 
Q.  Will you travel first class now?
 
VLADIMIR VOLTCHKOV:  I think a the amount of money, if you earn some money, really shouldn't change a lot of things in your schedule.  I think it's very important to be the same person as you were before.  If you do something one way, it makes you play better, I guess you have to keep doing it the same way.  When some things start to go wrong, then you have to start to change something.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT