WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2000
Vladimir Voltchkov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, Ladies and Gentlemen.  Mr. Voltchikov. 


Q.  A lot of us don't know anything about you.  People want to know now.  You obviously seem to like playing on grass.  Done well here before.  Is it one of your favourite surfaces?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Obviously, the results tell that it is my favourite surface, even though I like to play on other surfaces, as well.  I did well on the Challenger level.  But grass seems to bring me the best result, yes.

Q.  Are there any grass courts in Belarus that you practise on?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  We're practising on the synthetic grass there.

Q.  It's very different. 

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  It is different, but there's nothing to choose from.  We have those courts, and that's where I get ready for the natural grass. 

Q.  What has been your inspiration in your career?  Any one or particular thing?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Not really.  My dad brought me to tennis, and then I was like one of those  -- one of many players just trying to do their best.  Now going there step-by-step, arriving to some level where you want to be, I guess. 

Q.  Was your father a pro? 

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  No, he was not a pro.  He was just working at a factory.  We had a tennis club there, like a part of a factory.  One of my brothers used to play, so it was father's idea to take me to tennis.

Q.  What kind of factory?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Just some plant factory.  Minsk automobile plant.

Q.  Automobile parts?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Yes.

Q.  How old were you?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Seven and a half.

Q.  Are your parents over here to watch you?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  My father is here, yes.

Q.  What is his name?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  We rent a flat in the village.  We stay there with Max Mirnyi first.  Now he left, so we have all the flat for ourselves.

Q.  What is your father's name?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Nicolai.

Q.  I understand it's your birthday tomorrow. 

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  No, that's wrong information.  My birthday is April 7th.  I know, I had people coming to me in the beginning of the week and said that there's two dates in the book.  I said, "Well, it's April 7th." 

Q.  What year?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  '78. 

Q.  How much exposure did you have to the guys from the old Soviet Union  - Medvedev, Kafelnikov  - when you were a kid?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  A lot of people used to tell me that my technique is a little bit like Kafelnikov's, but I never saw him before I was 16, I think.  Of course, they always brought me good motivation.  When you see guys from former Soviet Union do really well, bring good results, of course it motivates you, as well.

Q.  You're taking to the grass very well.  You enjoy it, obviously?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Yes.  I liked it from the first time I came here when I played the Juniors event.  I did quarters first year.  I felt that this surface suits my game very well.

Q.  If the information is right on this one, you haven't played a lot of tour events this year.  It's been challengers.  What's it like to step up?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  For one point it's more difficult; from one point it's easier.  When you play on the challenger level, there is a lot of pressure.  There's 32 guys that are there.  Everybody wants to win, to make the step, to progress to a higher level where you start making big points, big money.  It's like a surviving zone, the challengers.  Once you through, here it's a different level.  It's a more instinctive game because the speed is much higher.  But here, again, you have less pressure on yourself because when you go to play against guys like Wayne or Younes el Aynaoui, Cedric, you just try to do your best.  Whatever comes is good. 

Q.  When someone wins the junior event, like you did, they think the year after you are going to win the big tournament.  What would you say has happened to you over the last four years?  Why has it been a fairly slow development?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Well, I guess there are a lot of reasons.  Because tennis is a very complicated game.  I'm still happy that even after four years, I guess it's four years, I'm still back here, still playing in the men's draw.  I'm happy about that.

Q.  Any reason why it hasn't been faster?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Last year I was already direct acceptance here.  I was one of six I think in May.  Then injuries start to come.  I had to pull out from a couple of tournaments.  Then I started to play, then the injury came back again.  I had to take some time off, three and a half months.  It just feels good to be playing again, especially doing well. 

Q.  What was the injury?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  I had the shoulder problem. 

Q.  Very expensive to play on the circuit, make your way up.  Sometimes it's tough for people from Eastern Europe to make it.  How did you manage to do it?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  In the beginning, I had companies helping me.  It was Advantage, some people from Advantage, especially Alexei Tsarenko (phonetic).  He helped me in the very beginning.  He found money for me to travel.  I thank you full.  I thank him for that.  Then when you start playing, I got some contracts.  I had some money left.  When I was injured, I still had some money left to start playing the tournaments, even though the financial situation in the beginning of the year was tough.

Q.  This year?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  Yeah. 

Q.  Presumably this is going to be the biggest payday of your career, by reaching this stage. 

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  I think, yes (smiling). 

Q.  What sort of contracts?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  I had Nike International contract and Wilson.

Q.  Quarterfinals of a Slam, you run into Sampras or Agassi.  You're going to play Pozzi or Black. 

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  It's obviously a big opportunity.  Again, I look at it from this point of view.  They're here.  It means that they are also playing really good tennis right now.  They beat some good guys, I guess.  They also  -- also they're close to their best game.  It's not about the games.  Of course, there's guys like Sampras, Agassi.  At this stage, I think it's more about who plays better on a given day. 

Q.  Did you go through a particular system in Belarus, or is it more result of an individual effort?

VLADIMIR VOLTCHIKOV:  It's very difficult to speak of any system there.  The system, it's already enough that we have indoor facility, outdoor facility.  Unfortunately, we don't have great tennis specialists there, like coaches, so you have to learn a lot of things by yourself.  I think at some stage, like when you start to fall in the rankings, the injuries there, it becomes sort of surviving.  You know, you still want to compete, you want to play against good guys, you want to get to higher level, so you start to use your head more.  You think what you can do possibly to get higher, then you do it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT