U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2013
Victoria Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. HANTUCHOVA/V. Duval
      6‑2, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts about what took place these last few days here and what you'll take from the experience?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I'm going to take a lot of‑‑ I think today I couldn't quite get myself going.   But I've had a great experience this whole tournament.   And I still have mixed.   And Daniela played really well today.   
    So I'm just gonna take what I learned here and take it to the other tournaments.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   That I'm capable of playing at this level.   
   
 Q.   How much of this match gave you that lesson as well as beating Sam?   
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, I missed a couple of shots by a couple inches.   I think those were the ones that ended up making the difference because I was in every game.   
    But, you know, beating Sam in the first round, and feeling a little bit of expectations in the second round, you know, that's something that I'm gonna learn to adapt to.   
   
 Q.   Was the media attention difficult the last 48 hours?   
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, it was overwhelming.   But I think this is what it's all about.   
   
 Q.   Did you enjoy it?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   For the most part, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What did you think were the keys today?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Uhm, I think Daniela served really well today, which definitely helped her.   And she was pretty precise on her shots today.   
    I think, you know, once again, I missed a couple shots really close when I had opportunities.   You know, a couple shots make differences in matches.   
   
 Q.   Was it sort of nerves there once you broke her serve and had the chance to take a two‑game lead in the second set?   
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Uhm, I don't think I ever felt free in the match today.   I don't think it had to do with the score or anything.   You know, once again, she hits really hard.   I couldn't quite get myself going.   
    I gave myself a couple chances, but I just never felt comfortable today.  
   
 Q.   What are you most proud of that you've done during this year's US Open?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Obviously winning my first round was quite an achievement.   I am just really proud that I've been able to give myself not only a good image on the court but off the court.   
    I think I was touched by all the little kids that came up to me and told me that I'm their role model.   I think for a 17‑year‑old, that's pretty cool to hear.   
   
 Q.   What must you work on in your game to improve, what strokes?   
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I think my main focus is going to be on a little more variety.   Obviously my serve also, I think I can get a little more power on my serve.   But I think it has a lot to do with the mental part also.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel different walking on the court today than you did before your first‑round match?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, I mean, I had a couple nerves.   I didn't feel too different.   I just couldn't quite get myself going, I guess.   
   
 Q.   What do you think it will mean to you to watch the video years from now of that first‑round triumph here and maybe the other experiences that you had during this US Open?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I mean, I had goosebumps watching it in the locker room yesterday, so...   I think, once again, that was a great achievement.   Hopefully I'll have many more.   
   
 Q.   Did it mean something to you to be a part of the night session at the US Open, given that your match was supposed to start during the day?   Did that mean something to you, that you were playing in the night session that makes the US Open unique?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, the crowd was great today.   I don't really have an easy time playing in the dark with my glasses.   But, uhm, I definitely really enjoyed the crowd today.   They were amazing.   
   
 Q.   Did it throw you off that you were scheduled for a day match, and you get out there and it's 8:00?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, sticking around all day is definitely never easy.   But, uhm, I rested in the locker room.   So I didn't feel tired going into the match.   
   
 Q.   You're still playing doubles here?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Mixed.   
   
 Q.   You'll stick around for as long as that goes on?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Sometimes young players when they get the big win start to think they can hang with these players, start to crave the success maybe sooner than focusing on just developing your game.   At this point do you still feel like a 17‑year‑old, like the pros are a long way off, playing seniors is a long way off?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, I mean, I know I have a lot of room to grow.   I am still growing right now.   My growth plates are still open.   I'm not sure how that's happening.   
    But I think once my body just settles in, I'm able to work a little more on my fitness.   I haven't really been able to because, you know, injuries of growing.   Once I start developing and working on my game, I think it will be a lot of success.  
   
 Q.   Have the doctors told you how tall they think you're going to get?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Uhm, the one doctor told me at least six feet.   My grandma was 6'4", I think.   I think I'm okay now, though.   
   
 Q.   Have you set any kind of personal goal for next year, whether it's a numerical goal?   How do you approach that heading forward?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah.   My goal for the end of the year was to be around 150, hopefully top 150.   I don't know how many points I got here.   But definitely the couple tournaments I'm going to play, I'm obviously going in it to win it and try to get my ranking up.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your years in Atlanta, the Racquet Club of the South, what that experience was like?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, I was working with Melanie Oudin's old coach.   He definitely helped me so much.   We worked on a lot of variety with the slice.   Melanie was having a lot of success at that time, too.   So I was able to learn from her a lot, too, about dealing with big wins and stuff.   So that was good for me.   
   
 Q.   How have the last couple of days affected your expectations of yourself and what you're looking forward to?  
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I know that was a big win, but I'm not gonna go above and beyond myself just because I think I'm going to set reasonable goals.   This was just another tournament.   I'm gonna keep working hard.   
    I did better than last year, so I'm happy about that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT