U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2013
Victoria Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. DUVAL/S. Stosur
      5‑7, 6‑4, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How would you describe your emotions at the end of that match?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   A lot of different emotions.   Mostly happiness.   I think I played amazing today.   It was incredible.   The whole match was just really an incredible match and I'm happy I pulled through. 

Q.   How does someone go from losing quarterfinals of 18s Nationals to beating the 2011 US Open champion in a matter of weeks?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Just forgetting about what happened before, because I've been changing a couple things in my game.   So I knew eventually it would come together, and I did today. 
    That's all I can ask for. 

Q.   Nerves closing out the match there? 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, it was a big moment, big stage, not easy closing any match out, let alone a past US Open champion. 
    So happy I did it, though (smiling). 

Q.   Sam said your forehand was causing her particular problems today, that you were really hitting it well.   Bigger than last year.   Talk about that.   What have you been working on with that shot?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I definitely think that getting to the next level in tennis is being able to go after your shots.   These girls hit really hard.   I wouldn't have pulled it off today if I wasn't confident in my shots. 
    I was willing to take that risk and it paid off. 

Q.   You didn't have any aces today.   How do you feel about where your serve is now?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   My serve is getting better.   I think it's better than it was last year.   I've gone through a couple stages of struggling with my serve. 
    I'm just working hard on it every day.   You know, I've been having a couple growth spurts, too.   I think my balance is a little off.   Just keep working, I guess. 

Q.   When you finally scored the winner on match point, what flooded through your mind? 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I don't even remember match point.   I guess I was really happy.   I mean, you could tell by all the jumping I did. 

Q.   You lost to Clijsters I believe last year.   After that match, if someone said, Don't worry, next year you'll win against the US Open champion, what would you have said?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I probably wouldn't believe them. 

Q.   How much did the qualifying for this elevate your game?   Did you get some toughness out of this, some technique?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, it gave me a lot of confidence.   Qualifying for a Grand Slam is not an easy task.   I played amazing all three of my matches.   That definitely helped me for today. 

Q.   How much did you think about last year's match against Clijsters on Ashe?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   It helped me a little bit.   The crowd didn't seem so overwhelming, because I felt like I was in that position before.   Also I got a lot of experience at the World TeamTennis. 
    I think being in that kind of situation is really helpful, too.   Billie has been great to me.   That's been awesome also.

Q.   Have you talked to Billie since your win?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah.

Q.   What did she say?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Well, we texted, so...   She just said, Congrats, really happy for you. 
    I'll call her later. 

Q.   You were at Bollettieri's the week before the Open.   Who are you working with now? 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Well, I've been pretty much just practicing with my brothers.   I was at the USTA for a year, and I was staying in the dorms. 
    I'm back home right now.   But I still have a great relationship with the USTA.   They help me with everything I do.   I guess I'm still part of the USTA, but I'm just home with my family right now.

Q.   Even though you had the great wins in qualifying, good junior success, I'm sure you were aware who Stosur was when you walked on court.   Did you feel you had the game to play with her?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah.   Again, I think the qualifying helped me.   It gave me some confidence.   I had a great match against Jankovic, too, at the Sony, I think it was.   Just buildup of matches, they just really help. 

Q.   It's been a couple hours.   Have you thought about what this means for you? 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Uhm, haven't really thought about that yet.   Obviously it's a great feeling to beat a past champion.   And Sam is amazing.   Although she didn't play nearly her best today, I played amazing, so I'll take it (smiling). 
    But, yeah, I mean, I have to worry about the next match, so I can't celebrate too much. 

Q.   Do you remember the moment you fell in love with tennis?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah.   Actually, my brothers played.   So I was a ballerina before tennis.   I would just run around and hit the ball.   I could never hit the strings.   My brother would go to this tournament in Santo Domingo every year.   The tournament director said, Your daughter comes and sits on your lap.   Why don't you have her play in the tournament? 
    I was seven.   I had no idea how to keep score, nothing.   It was a 10‑and‑under tournament, I think, and I won it.   I had no idea where to stand on the court or anything.   After that, my mom was, Okay, you have to choose now.   Tennis seemed to be appropriate.

Q.   For people who are getting familiar with you, how would you describe your personality on and off the court?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Uhm, I am very goofy off the court, so...   I think I'm very much of a child at heart. 
    Uhm, on the court, you have to be a warrior because that's just the sport we are in.   You know, off the court I think it's important to have fun and be a good role model for other people.   Just, I don't know, have fun.   My motto is 'have fun.' 

Q.   How did that mentality manifest itself in tonight's match?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Well, it was definitely more important in the closing‑out stages and in the tougher stages, because I wasn't thinking about the score or anything because I didn't want to get too wrapped up in what else was going on. 
    Just staying focused I think is the most important thing. 

Q.   Can you clarify with your growth spurt, how tall are you and how much do you weigh now?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I'm 5'10", and last time I weighed I was 150. 

Q.   You're not the working with Bollettieri at the moment?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Well, I talk to him a lot.   I mean, I'm not physically at IMG.   I take help from everyone.   We have a great relationship.   I call him Uncle Nick. 

Q.   We're in the interview in Arthur Ashe Stadium. 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Uh‑huh. 

Q.   Were you aware about 20 years ago he was in a protest for the rights of Haitian refugees in Washington and was arrested at that time?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Who was? 

Q.   Arthur Ashe. 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Okay.   I didn't know that, no.   That's fantastic.   Was he in this chair? 

Q.   I don't think he was around when this stadium was built. 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Okay. 

Q.   He was at the US Open the day before that occurred. 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Thank you.   That's a great fact right there. 

Q.   Can you talk about your path from when you won the 10‑and‑under tournament to becoming a very good junior with your parents, was it financially difficult, teaching, all of that? 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, it was definitely financially difficult, especially after the earthquake.   My dad wasn't able to work anymore. 
    I've been very fortunate.   A couple family members have helped me.   Hopefully with this win today, that will change a little bit. 

Q.   Your dad went back to Haiti during the earthquake while you were in Florida?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, we were in Atlanta at the time.   But, yeah, he flew back the day before it happened, so... 

Q.   Talk about the role Harry Kitchen had in your life. 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah, we're forever grateful to them.   If it wasn't for them, my dad definitely wouldn't be here today.   Not everyone just pays $30,000 to fly a helicopter to save someone. 
    Great story.   They're amazing people.   I mean, they're angels.   We couldn't have found better people. 

Q.   Tell the story.   How did he come to send the helicopter for your family?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Well, they wouldn't let planes in because there was no runway.   They I guess looked online for a couple hours.   It was the only plane they actually let in Haiti.   My dad, they found him after 11 hours.   It was incredible.   I mean, I don't know.   I'm so grateful, I don't know how he managed. 

Q.   What is his profession?   What does he do in the Atlanta area, Mr. Kitchen?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I think they're both in real estate, him and his wife. 

Q.   How is your dad today?   Is he able to work? 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   He's not.   But he's improving so much.   Emotionally it was hard at first.   But he's as happy as he's ever been.   He had a couple surgeries that helped take the pain away.   We're just so happy that, you know, he's in a good state of mind right now.   He's just here with us.   So it's incredible. 

Q.   Talk about your experience with the crowd.   They were chanting 'USA' the third set.   What was that like for you?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   It was amazing.   I felt like I was on Ashe honestly.   They were so loud.   It was incredible.   The crowd helped me a lot. 

Q.   I know you said earlier in the year your favorite Sponge Bob character is Gary. 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Oh, God (smiling). 

Q.   But he's a snail.   You seem like you're very much not in your shell.   You seem very comfortable. 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I definitely am never in a shell.   I don't know.   I just think Gary's cute (laughter).   Gary doesn't get enough credit.   It's all about Sponge Bob, so... 

Q.   Was there some incident when you were in Haiti when you were kidnapped or abducted as a child?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah.   We were held hostage.   It's not a good memory, so I try to forget as much as I could about it.   I don't remember too much of it anymore, which is great. 

Q.   Your whole family was?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   No, just me and a couple cousins.

Q.   How old were you?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I was seven. 

Q.   Did you see the video of your family celebrating after you won the match? 
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   No.   I heard that Lil Wayne tweeted me.   I need to go check that out.   I don't have Twitter.   I'm going to go hit that up.   Maybe I have to create one and be like @weezythankyou. 

Q.   Do you think Victoria Duval is going to become a tennis star?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   That's what I'm working for.   If God will let it, then let's go. 

Q.   How much were you aware of the success of Sloane and Madison and Taylor?   Do you pay attention to that and get inspiration?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   Yeah.   I mean, we're obviously trying to make American tennis become what it used to be.   We're all working towards the same goal.   We're all a tight‑knit group.   Helping each other is important.   We're all doing amazing.   I think we're on an amazing path. 

Q.   What do you know about Hantuchova next?
    VICTORIA DUVAL:   I know she hits really hard, so try to counterattack maybe. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT