ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Eric Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Go back to November5th.   Talk about that, the interception.   
ERIC REID:   It was a man coverage.   I was on my man.   I saw a big guy running free.   So as a safety you're taught not to get beat deep, so naturally I tried to get behind him.   When the ball's in the air, I just went and got it.  
   
 Q.   Looking back, it looked like a guy was coming across and got held up by the ref.   How often do weird things like that, where you may have been in one place if something weird hadn't have happened‑‑ how many times has that happened in the course of a game?  
ERIC REID:   I mean, there's stuff like that all the time.   The refs do tend to get in the way sometimes.   Especially as a safety, you come down, trying to get in the box, there'll be linebackers out, you might bump into the ref a couple times.   But the rules say they're an extension of the field, so you have to deal with it.  
   
 Q.   The hype that's been surrounding this game, is it something like you guys have experienced before, or is it just completely new, completely something you've had to adjust to this week?  
ERIC REID:   I mean, it's the same as most of the games we played this year.   You start the season off with Oregon.   We played Alabama, a lot of ranked teams.   It's not something that we're not accustomed to already.  
   
 Q.   What is the craziest thing you guys have seen on Bourbon Street or any events you've been to this week?  
ERIC REID:   I pretty much stayed cooped up in the hotel, so I haven't hit Bourbon Street.  
   
 Q.   What's the best food that you've had?   Let's go there.   
ERIC REID:   I forget the name of the restaurants we've been to.   I'm from Louisiana, but I don't know New Orleans.   Where we went last night was pretty good.   I think it's called Z's (phonetic) or something.  
   
 Q.   How cool is it we're not only in SEC country but an all‑SEC national championship game?   How cool is that for you guys?  
ERIC REID:   It says a lot about the SEC.   We like to say it's the best conference in the nation.   So when you come here, you play with the expectations of winning a championship.   And somebody in the SEC is going to go home with a ring.  
   
 Q.   Eric, we were asking some of these Tide guys what are they most afraid of pretty much, and they kept answering with trannies.   Do you take offense to that?  
ERIC REID:   I don't take offense to it.   But it's not really my thing either.   I stay in the hotel.   So I don't really see those people.  
   
 Q.   No, no, it's just like they're more worried about these guys on Bourbon Street than they are about the upcoming defense.   It's just like, really?   
ERIC REID:   I just focus on what I can focus on.   That's going to practice this afternoon and getting better and preparing for this game.  
   
 Q.   Whenever they threw that pass with Marquis Maze that you intercepted, what was going through your mind whenever it was in the air and you were running for it?  
ERIC REID:   Not to get beat deep.   I knew it wasn't my man, but I knew somebody had to get there, so I just tried my best to get back and get the ball.  
   
 Q.   Did you know you intercepted it before the referee made the call?  
ERIC REID:   I thought I had it all right.   After the replay I saw he had the ball first but I was able to wrestle it away.   The whole time I thought it was an interception.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to be thinking if they try to run it again Monday night?  
ERIC REID:   We'll be more aware of it after seeing it and getting beat on it almost the first time.   So we're going to know those formations and do a better job.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like Alabama wants to get their tight ends involved in this game.   Do the safeties cover the tight ends usually on the defense or linebackers?  
ERIC REID:   Depends on the call.   Sometimes the linebackers, sometimes the safety.   
But we just gotta, like I was saying, doing a better job getting everybody covered on the field, and that way they don't have any advantages.  
   
 Q.   All right.   And which different coverages would you have to like‑‑ like, for instance, if you're pulling back, obviously you wouldn't go with the tight ends, but if you pull up to the line of scrimmage, you would?   Is that the way it goes?   Is that way too simple?   
ERIC REID:   Without getting into any specifics, all I can say is it depends on the call.   Sometimes the linebacker is guarding them, sometimes it's the safety.  
   
 Q.   Talk about just off the field, how exciting is it to be able to play with‑‑ play against Eddie two years in a row   having came from the same area?  
ERIC REID:   It's something that we talked about in high school.   At that point we didn't know what our lives would be like at this point, but we knew we had big plans.   And we told each other when we made it to the next level we were going to see each other again, and we were fortunate to see each other a couple times.  
   
 Q.   Eddie talked about how it was always his childhood dream to play in this arena.   And not only is he getting to play in this arena finally, but he gets to play across the field from one of his best friends.   How special is that going to be for both of you guys, regardless of the outcome?  
ERIC REID:   It's not often that two guys from the same school get this privilege to play in the national championship against each other.   So while we're on the field we're going to be enemies, but in between the whistles we're going to be probably talking to each other saying what's up.  
   
 Q.   A lot of people, especially fans, talk about what a harsh rivalry this is, that there's so much trash talk that it's gone overboard; that, according to the players, there's a lot of respect, there's not that much trash talk.   How do you rate the trash talk and do you do any or how do you receive it?   
ERIC REID:   I think the trash talk is pretty much done between the fans.   Like he was saying, the players have respect for each other.   We're here to play football, and that's what we're going to do, and we let our fans talk for us if they want to.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT