NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 13, 2014
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pairing the father and son up at the Masters, would that be good or bad?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Probably both.   Haven't thought about it a whole lot.   Certainly that's out of our hands.   They will do whatever they please over there, so we'll find out soon enough.   
   
 Q.   This is a big deal for you to go to the Masters.   
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, absolutely.   I'm sure I'll get some rounds in with him early in the week and who knows during the tournament, we'll see.   
   
 Q.   You just started Twitter recently‑‑  
KEVIN STADLER:   I didn't‑‑  
   
 Q.   It's not your account?  
KEVIN STADLER:   No.   I don't do any of that stuff (laughs).   
   
 Q.   What makes you say that?   
KEVIN STADLER:   I just have no interest in that.   I talk to people I want to talk to.   I don't feel like everybody in the world has the right to know what I want to do.   
   
 Q.   How many times have you played this course?   
KEVIN STADLER:   A lot.   I don't know how many.   A lot.   Probably safely more than any other TOUR event we play, just going to college here, and on top of that, watching around here, watching my old man play, feel really, really comfortable around here.   
I play here every time I could.   I had to miss it one time because I had a little injury.   I was not happy about it.   I really wanted to kind of come and chance it but I couldn't play.   But I'll gladly play here every single year.   
   
 Q.   During the season?   
KEVIN STADLER:   A couple times a month‑‑ over the course of a year, played probably 20 or 30 times a year.   
   
 Q.   You were kind of on the back, birdie, bogey; driving you crazy?   
KEVIN STADLER:   The one on 17 drove me crazy, yeah.   That was a terrible bogey.   15 you're going to bogey more often than not.   It's just a hard hole.   Got out of position and made a pretty simple bogey.   17, I just in my lay up in the rough, caught a little bit of a flyer, knuckleballer with the wedge and went over the green and unfortunately didn't get it up‑and‑down.   But you're sitting there thinking you made birdie and making 6, frustrating, but it happens.  
   
 Q.   When you took out the putter‑‑  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, it rolled great through there.   I was expecting it to not roll very well.   I was expecting it to pop up and trickle on the green.   It was kind of‑‑ all the grass was laying down and it was muddy where I couldn't get any decent contact on the chip.   I tried to roll through it and it came off a lot better than I was expecting it to.   
   
 Q.   2‑under a pretty good start?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Thought could I have been better but gladly I'll take it.   
   
 Q.   What have you heard about Match Play?   
KEVIN STADLER:   Next to nothing to be honest with you.   Don't know.   
   
 Q.   Watch it much?   Pay attention to it?   
KEVIN STADLER:   I watched it a little bit, not a whole lot, though.   I'll get down there, check out the course Monday, Tuesday.   I think it will be fun.   Glad to go tee it up.   
I've never been on the course, but I've heard mixed reviews about it.   But from what I hear, people say that I should like it and that it should be a course that will suit me.   
   
 Q.   What was your first conversation with your dad like after you won the tournament?   
KEVIN STADLER:   Well, I just congratulated him on never having to go back there past this year.   He's getting a little too old to compete around there and I think it's been beating him up a little bit the last few years and he's been giving me a little bit of grief, trying to hurry me up and trying to get me in there before he called it quits.   I think he's going to be very happy to play his last go‑around there this year.   I know he loves going back there but the course seems to be a little too tough for him these days.  
   
 Q.   Has he said that, this will be it for me?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, he's told me for five years, as soon as I get in, it's the last one he'll play.   He's looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel more pressure on yourself‑‑  
KEVIN STADLER:   Not really.   It wasn't something I even honestly thought about until somebody in the press said something.   Obviously the best bonus you could ever get from it so it wasn't something I thought about.   It wasn't something I was thinking about on the 18th fairway at Phoenix, per se, but last year at Chicago, I was hoping to get in that way and I've been around the last two years getting into THE TOUR Championship but just hasn't panned out.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT