AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 5, 2014
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You're playing with Jeb Bush.   What are your thoughts about playing in the pro‑am and especially playing with him. 
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, it will be interesting, yeah.   I was pretty surprised to see that.   But it will be an honor to play with him.   He's obviously a very prominent person, one of the most prominent families in America.   So it's going to be a good fun few days.

Q.   How tough is it to stay focused a second week, especially after winning last week?
KEVIN STADLER:   I feel like I almost focus better in these pro‑am events.   I don't really know why.   It works opposite for a lot of people, but I think that ‑‑ well I shouldn't say I focus better, but I think that the lack of focus seems to help me.   Where it's just a little more relaxed and not too worried about things and just kind of go about your business.   It seems to be the way to go. 

Q.   What have things been like since Sunday?
KEVIN STADLER:   Just a blur.   I don't believe it's Wednesday already.   It's just been a lot of fun.

Q.   How many people did you hear from?
KEVIN STADLER:   A lot. 

Q.   Any idea?   Texts and things?
KEVIN STADLER:   No idea.   It was hundreds.   It was pretty cool. 

Q.   Phone blow up?
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, the phone's been pretty busy for the last couple days.

Q.   The last thing, how much pressure, as a player having not won on this TOUR, does that take off when you win a tournament?   Is there much difference in your mental approach?
KEVIN STADLER:   I don't feel any different at the moment, but I think that's something I would have to wait another month or two to be able to tell you. 
Honestly, it doesn't feel like anything's changed for me.   But you set out to do that every week and obviously it happens once ever 10 years for me, at least, it's something that hasn't quite sunk in yet and nothing feels different yet.

Q.   You've had a couple days now, with the Masters thing, just some thoughts on that.   You've had some time to digest it. 
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, a little bit.   I was talking to my dad yesterday about it and it's going to be phenomenal.   I can't wait to get there.   It's going to be pretty cool.   He said it's definitely going to be the last one he's going to play and it's great to be able to spend some time with him on the course when I never, ever, play any golf with him.   It's going to be a special week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT