WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2014
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Kevin Stadler to the media center.   Kevin, if you could give us opening thoughts, especially about that great first nine.  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, it was good.   Got off to a great start.   Birdied 2, 3, and 4.   Couple good putts on 2 and 4, and kind of a routine one on the par‑5 on the third.   I don't know.   7, kind of a really bonus to make birdie on 7.   Good par‑3 and knocked in probably a 40‑foot birdie putt, so it was totally unexpected.   Another one on 8.   It was as good of a start as you could hope for.  
THE MODERATOR:   We'll open it up for questions.   
   
 Q.   What were you expecting this week?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I was kind of hoping to play well.   I had a great week of practice last week.   I took an extended break this winter and was a little behind the 8‑Ball early in the year and struggled my way around Palm Springs, but last week I felt like the game was really starting to come together, so I was ready for it to get started this week.  
   
 Q.   What was the reason for the extended break?   Just needed it mentally?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, just played a lot more last year than I had in the past few years and just needed a little down time.  
January got here a lot quicker this year than it normally does.  
   
 Q.   What did you do during the down time?   Anything unusual?   Anything fun?   
KEVIN STADLER:   No.  
   
 Q.   What's your idea of fun in the off‑season?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Football.   Wasn't much to watch except ‑‑ college‑ranks, anyway, but plenty of Broncos football.  
   
 Q.   You are a Broncos fan?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Oh, yeah very much so.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the game?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I can't wait for Sunday.   I think it's going to be a hell of a game.   If the defense keeps playing like they did the last couple of weeks, it's going to be a fun game to watch.  
   
 Q.   What happens if you get a late tee time on Sunday and you're here a little bit late?   Is that going to be an issue for you?  
KEVIN STADLER:   No, I will be paying attention however I can (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Are you planning on watching the game from here or leaving town?  
KEVIN STADLER:   No, no, I'm hanging here.   I'm playing Pebble, but I'm not going up till Tuesday next week, so I will be here in town.  
   
 Q.   You can't miss the game?  
KEVIN STADLER:   No, absolutely not.  
   
 Q.   Did you make any significant changes from the off‑season?  
KEVIN STADLER:   No, no.   You know, I felt like I had a couple of good years and just‑‑ you know, usually start off, play pretty well on the West Coast.   I'm comfortable out here.   Like I said, it was a little later start here.   Only played one event so far, but just needed to catch up on the practice, and it was finally‑‑ felt like the game was coming together.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you need to get over the hump to have the kind of success you'd like to have?   You have done pretty well, but how would you like to do a little better?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Honestly I don't really know.   I feel like the game is getting pretty consistent.   I haven't contended too many times, but I have been kind of right on the fringe a lot.  
So just the more opportunities I have to be in the last group or two on Sunday, the better off I'll be.   
   
 Q.   Do you spend very much time on this course?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I practice here a lot.   I don't get on the course a whole lot.   The course is pretty slammed with the public all the time.   
But I go play two, three, four holes late afternoon, so I have played here quite a bit but not in 18‑hole chunks.   But I spend most of my waking hours on the back end of the range here, spend a lot of time here.  
   
 Q.   How far from here you do live?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Two minutes, at most, if I hit the light.  
   
 Q.   Is it easier playing a home game like this, or is it tougher because you know so many people around, you've got more demands on your time?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I think it's easier just because of what you said.   Kind of takes the golf thoughts and puts them on the back burner.   
You're kind of running around doing a million different things, and it's kind of like almost a break when you get on the course.  
I enjoy it.   Just kind of‑‑   I have been living here long enough, it's pretty much home for me now.   It's fun, fun to be able to just hang around, do your normal stuff at home and come out and have a week to compete, as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT