OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 15, 2013
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. 62 for Kevin Stadler.   You're in great position for the weekend.   How important was it for you to get done on Friday?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Very.   I didn't really feel like waking up tomorrow 4:00 again tomorrow morning.   Nice to be completely done with both rounds today, and just kind of get a little bit of rest tonight.   
   
 Q.   You entered Sunday of last week's McGladrey's Classic with a chance; disappointing Sunday.   How do you think you can right the ship and have a different result this weekend?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I'm not really sure.   I really didn't feel like I played that poorly on Sunday.   Just didn't really didn't get anything going my way.   Kind of stuck in there through all day, but I was still hitting fairly decent golf shots.   I felt comfortable in that position, so look forward to be there more often.  
   
 Q.   You've had success in the past of this event, but very different conditions.   How are you approaching this golf course differently this year?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Not a whole lot differently.   It's played about as easy as it can play for us today I guess.   Most of our round was today.   
But with it being as soft as it is, the fairways played much wider than they typically play.   No breeze today, so we kind of got let off the hook.   
Yeah, it was a great round today.   Very long day, but couldn't be happier than I am right now with this round.  
It wasn't my best golf today, but the score added up very nicely.  
   
 Q.   You're still waiting for your first TOUR title.   Does your experience on the other tours help you right now at this point of the tournament?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I certainly hope so.   It's been quite a while since I won anything.   You know, it's been six, seven years now.   Won a lot around the world, just not out here.   
Looking forward to getting another chance.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it's going to play, the course, on the weekend with this kind of water (indiscernible) out here?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Probably going to play similar to the last couple days.   Just depends on how much the wind blows.  
In the past it's been pretty windy around here and today was pretty calm.   Kind of expecting more of the same.   Not sure what to expect as far as storms go the rest of the weekend, but hopefully it'll be similar to today and yesterday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT