THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 9, 2013
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   65 for Kevin Stadler.   Playing alongside Boo Weekley who said you were awfully impressive today.   How would you assess your round?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah.   I hit it pretty nice.   I didn't make too many mistakes, a lot of fairways and just played a pretty simple round, hit a lot of greens, a lot of fairways and knocked a couple putts in.  
   
 Q.   How has this golf course changed from Thursday to Friday, now back with a little bit of a breeze again today?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Thursday was as easy as you'll ever see it play out here.   There wasn't a breath.   And yesterday our side of the draw got a little bit of a break.   It was really windy early and let off, kind of blew about like this for us all afternoon.   Today to yesterday was pretty similar, so it was nice to have some experience playing in this wind already from yesterday.  
   
 Q.   As you continue to knock on the door to get in that winner's circle, how much more confident or perhaps confident are you as you try to get a title on Sunday?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Certainly a lot more comfortable.   You know, it took me quite a while to kind of feel like I belonged out here and to just settle in.   I've been out here quite a while now and haven't had too many shots to win, but plenty of times around other tours and whatnot, so certainly looking forward to tomorrow.   Should be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Curt Byrum said you've been working hard on your game the past couple of years.   What in particular have you been putting the extra time in on?  
KEVIN STADLER:   You know, just kind of everything all around.   Couple years ago it was a lot of short game work and then just kind of constantly working on the golf swing, just trying to get it more and more consistent.   I've tried to eliminate half the golf course and just make more at ease to hit shots on the course.  
   
 Q.   Great playing today.   Kevin, on a day where a lot of people are struggling to make birdies, you made plenty out there.   
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah.   I made a few today.   They were hard to come by for me the first couple days, but I think I made, I don't know, six or seven of them today, so it was good.   Got a couple putts to drop on that Back 9 and got some red numbers on the board.  
   
 Q.   Last‑minute decision to come play this tournament.   What changed your mind?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Lack of anything else to do for myself.   No, I've only played here once and it's a good ball striker's track and I figured after next week we're about to have two months off, so might as well come give it a shot.  
   
 Q.   I spoke to your caddie, Shannon, and he said nothing out of the ordinary here.   Just made some more putts.   Been hitting it like this for a while.   
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah.   I've been hitting it pretty good.   Played really well in Vegas, didn't make anything.   And Malaysia was just kind of average, but to finish still 2013, but to finish off last season, I hit it pretty well the last couple of months and started to have some better results, and you know, it's just nice to put a complete round.  
   
 Q.   Got yourself in great shape.   Good luck tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT