THE BARCLAYS
August 22, 2013
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you see this coming? 
KEVIN STADLER:   Yes and no.   I've had kind of a pretty lousy summer, result‑wise, but really started hitting the ball a lot better a couple weeks ago and was looking forward to playing some golf again here recently.   Felt like I was heading in the right direction, even though the results were not showing it and finally got something out of it today.

Q.   What was it about the front nine?
KEVIN STADLER:   I hit it really well this morning warming up, and hit a nice tee shot down the first and made a pretty simple par.   Good shot, good 4‑iron on the second on the par3 and made a nice putt. 
My putter was kind of hot and cold, and to see one go in there and I made another nice one on two, kind of put me at ease, I knew I was hitting the ball well and to see a couple putts match up well and go in, it was a good day.

Q.   Was it hard to stay mentally prepared?
KEVIN STADLER:   Not really.   I'm never really mentally I prepared.   Same as usual.   It was all good, it was a long day but there's nothing we can do about it.

Q.   How did you pass the time during the delays? 
KEVIN STADLER:   I was extremely bored.   I was sitting around doing nothing.   I spent the first part of the time looking for my car.   The hotel lost my car last night.   So was trying to track that down, and the rest of it I was just hanging out inside doing nothing. 

Q.   How confident are you that you can continue with the success?
KEVIN STADLER:   I'm excited, I've been hitting the ball really well the last couple weeks.   As long as the putter cooperates a little bit, I think I should be fine. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KEVIN STADLER:   It's half of one round of the first day, but yeah, I don't think I'll ever in my life look like Camilo, that's for sure. 

Q.   Happy you got your round in tomorrow? 
KEVIN STADLER:   I don't know what time we are going to start tomorrow, it's going to be late, though, but prefer to be on this side where we don't have a marathon day, but we only had to play 18 holes, so won't take as big of a toll as the other guys, for sure. 

Q.   How about getting a start like this in the Playoffs? 
KEVIN STADLER:   As far as what? 

Q.   Starting the Playoffs, what a great start. 
KEVIN STADLER:   It's been good.   I don't know how many times I've played‑‑ I played well last year at The Barclays.   For me, the Playoffs are another tournament, it's kind of all the same.   This is just a little kind of half‑step up for me.   I'll get to play a lot of the world events and the majors and all those guys are here this week, so in that regard, it's pretty cool but it's just another week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT