ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2013
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Really a nicely played round of golf.   You really had it going on the front?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, the front was nice.   I drove it a lot better today, and I had a lot of solid iron shots for a lot of good looks.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a chance to shoot something really exotic, take it really deep?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Not really.   I'm happy with what I shot.   I kind of scraped it around the last five or six holes, so lot of squirrely shots.   I think I played the last six even par.   About what I deserved, maybe even saved one.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, beautiful par saves at 14 and 15 for you?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, 14, I hit an ugly 5‑iron off the tee there.   I was trying to hit a little too hard and had a nice up‑and‑down off the bunker shot.   And 15 has been a hole that's given me trouble every day, every year.   I've made two good fours there, and a three‑putt five yesterday.   So I figured four or five there and go to the next.  
   
 Q.   It gives a lot of players trouble out here.   What about 18, that was a legitimate roll at birdie, could have eagle from 22 feet?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, I hit a nice putt there.   It was a nice finish, good drive, good 3‑wood and really good putt.   The last hour was a little scrappy, so to hit good shots there at 18 so that was a good way to finish.  
   
 Q.   As the leaders just go off, what are some holes and hole locations that may get everyone's attention?   
KEVIN STADLER:   I don't know.   It was there for the taking today.   There were a couple little tricky ones, but I thought the hardest one on the front was on 8, but it's a little short hole and they needed to trick that one up a little bit.   
7 was reachable today, which I couldn't reach the last couple of days, but it was a hard pin to get close to.   There are some good scores out there if the wind stays down low.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT