THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2012
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a sensational front nine with the five birdies, tell us about that start for you in those first nine holes?  
KEVIN STADLER:   It was good.   I've been playing the first couple of holes poorly, feel like you should be able to get a couple of them.   Nice putt on 1, got off to a good start and birdied 3,4,5.   Ideal start to say the least.  
   
 Q.   Talk about 14, because you really attacked that front left hole location and just had a short putt there for a birdie at 14?  
KEVIN STADLER:   It was a perfect number with 9‑iron, held it in against the wind and hit it just right.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you're feeling pretty confident with the putter?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I was knocking them in the middle, so it's definitely good for the confidence to make a few.  
   
 Q.   How did it feel coming up 18, and all of the chants of "Stads," with one of the better rounds of the day.   
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, it was cool.   Any time you play well in front of the crowds out here, it's a fun day.   
   
 Q.   Sunday, right in the thick of things here at The Barclays.   
KEVIN STADLER:   There's so much golf left today, but obviously a need another good one to make any noise tomorrow.   Love where I'm sitting compared to where I was this morning.   
   
 Q.   I noticed you've gotten to the Deutsche Bank before but never gone past; so getting a good tournament under your belt this week and everything I guess is a good thing?   
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, I've played‑‑ I don't know how many times I've played up there, a few times.   And honestly I've played pretty poorly every year in the Playoffs.   I've been just a little fatigued by this time of the year.   I tried to play a few less tournaments at the start of the year, and hopefully have a little game left.   Looking forward to next week and if I can get beyond that.   
My results this summer have been pretty poor but I've been striking the ball really well.   Just kind of waiting for the putter to come around.   I hit it pretty good today; the first two days was the worst I hit it all summer and the putter kept me in.   It was nice to match them both up today.   
   
 Q.   Was there any one thing with the putter?   
KEVIN STADLER:   Just mental.   Just need to see a few go in.   Put a lot of practice in early this week and nice to see a couple go in.   
   
 Q.   You're not one to change?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I do, but I've had this putter all year long.   I didn't change anything.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT