AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2011
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I don't know if you're aware of it or not, but the guy that etches the plaques in the clubhouse is already busy because Cameron Tringale just got 64 20 minutes before you did. Is it that easy out there?  
 KEVIN STADLER: I don't want to say it's easy. On this course if you hit it well, you're going to have a lot of chances. The ball is going a long way, and if you drive it well you're going to have a lot of wedges, a lot of opportunities.  
  
  Q. You only missed one green. Obviously your ball-striking is going well. What else are you doing well?  
 KEVIN STADLER: You know, not much. I'm hitting it really good. I've been hitting it well the last few weeks and not getting a whole lot out of it. I hit it great the first two days and didn't really score. A lot of three-putts; I think I had six three-putts. The only bogeys I'm making are three-putts. I've been hitting a lot of greens, a lot of fairways. Out here you can make some birdies because you have a lot of wedges if you're driving it well.  
  
  Q. 17, what they've done with the tee, 215 on the scorecard but 144 yards today. Talk about the challenges of standing on that tee box with today's hole location.   
 KEVIN STADLER: It doesn't really matter where you put the tee there because it's a really, really tough hole. The wind picked up -- it's not really blowing but it's swirling a little bit out of there. When you're hitting a 9-iron it's probably even more penal because you're going to be trying to go at the flag when you've only got probably 10, 12 feet short and you're in the water. That hole was playing downwind for us, and we're standing over it, and you just don't really know where to go. You just kind of take your 3, or in my case 4. Today I don't really care about it; I'd much rather make a 3, but you can take a 3 there all day no matter who day it is and get out of there.  
  
  Q. Phenomenal round. Can we get some comments?   
 KEVIN STADLER: Yeah, it was a great. I haven't shot a round like this in quite a while. I've been playing pretty well and just not getting too many scores or results out of it. Today I had a good day where everything for the most part went right and shot a low round.  
  
  Q. I saw you walk off the 18th on Thursday kind of muttering to yourself. Today was far different. What was the difference?   
 KEVIN STADLER: I mutter to myself all the time. Not a whole lot of difference (chuckling).   
 No, Thursday I played well and shot 3-over. I only missed four greens and three-putted four or five times, really had trouble on the greens. I think it was just typical of the way I've been going lately. It was one of those days where I was a little down when I finished. I think I three-putted the last to finish that day.   
 My ball-striking has gotten a little better from Thursday to today, and I just made a couple more putts.  
  
  Q. Is the course different today than it was yesterday?  
 KEVIN STADLER: Yeah, it was a lot softer. I thought it played a little softer and more humid today, it was a little more receptive. It was nice to get out early today. It was just a lot softer out there.  
  
  Q. You and Tringale both tied the course record, but talk about what you expect to see in the afternoon.   
 KEVIN STADLER: I don't know if there will be too many super low, but I expect them to be a little lower than they were the first couple days. There are a lot more accessible pins today, a couple pins in bowls so you can get them really close. 13, 14 are darn near drivable. You can get them right up there by the green. Just a couple more birdie opportunities.  
  
  Q. Talk about being in contention headed into the final day.   
 KEVIN STADLER: I couldn't even tell you if I'm in contention yet. They haven't even started warming up yet, the leaders.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT