SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 4, 2010
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Congratulations, Shaun.  
  Q. Kevin, one of the few professionals who can do two things at once, signing autographs, talking to the media. Not a bad week.  
 KEVIN STADLER: Yeah, it was. It was a good week. I wasn't really comfortable with my ball striking, golf swing really the whole week, and to kind of grind it out and get a good finish was very satisfying.  
  
  Q. No bogies until very late in the round today. You really had something going. Did you feel like, hey, I'm finally in this thing early in the back-9?  
 KEVIN STADLER: Yes and no. I was never comfortable with the way I was hitting it all week. Just today I was hitting it good enough to get away with it. Today it was set-up pretty tough and only really had one option of where to hit it on every hole. That made it a little easier for me. Kind of laid out for you how you had to play the course.   
 I hit it pretty solid and had lot of chance. Didn't make many putts. I got to 2, 3, 4-under early without making anything. I certainly had some chances.  
  
  Q. Your third Top-10 of the year. You got really something going this year a little bit. You're feeling really comfortable now that okay, this is who I am, this is what I do, this is where I belong?   
 KEVIN STADLER: Took me long enough to get to that point. I've put in a lot of work in the last year. Starting working with a new teacher back home. It's been really good.  
  
  Q. Wyndham do that for you getting in a playoff there to be that close, yeah, I can do this?  
 KEVIN STADLER: Probably. I don't really know what it was. That certainly had something to do with it. Last year as a whole, just playing conditional out here and keep my card for this year. Very limited status last year and playing well enough to stay out.  
  
  Q. What's your calendar ahead?  
 KEVIN STADLER: Busy.  
  
  Q. Good. That's a good thing.  
 KEVIN STADLER: Playing quite a bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT