HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2007
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SHENTON GOMEZ:  Thank you for coming here today.  Another solid round for you.  You must be pleased with your position after two rounds. 
 KEVIN STADLER:  Absolutely.  I didn't really have anything in mind for the week but this has been great so far. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  You had a solid day, tell us about the eagle and what happened there. 
 KEVIN STADLER:  It was a matter of luck really.  Don't really like laying back there, and I hit driver and pitched just short of the green and popped up.  I was trying to get it around the green and very lucky to get it on and had about 20 feet and knocked it in. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  Your bogey at the 17th and birdie at the 18th, pretty solid finish for you.  Take us through the last two holes. 
 KEVIN STADLER:  17, I think I got a bad gust of wind, hit a really good shot, probably one of my better iron shots for the day and just came up short.  Had a tough lie in the rough and hit a pretty good pitch and just missed the putt. 
 18, I laid it up in the rough and got a pretty good lie and felt like I hit a good shot there. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  Your birdie putt on the 18th, how many feet. 
 KEVIN STADLER:  I was pretty close, two or three feet. 

 Q.  You seem to be a pretty relaxed character, but how are you feeling after playing two great rounds?  Are you nervous, excited? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  I'm not really nervous yet.  I'm just enjoying my time here.  Not a very nervous person in general.  Just like to think I'm really laid back and just kind of go along with it. 
 I'm sure if this position holds up I'll get a little jittery over the weekend, but as of right now, I feel great. 

 Q.  Yesterday you said that you might have to look again at your goals in golf, can you talk a little bit more about that? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  (Laughs) I didn't have time to ponder that overnight.  But I just don't really have much to elaborate there. 
 By that I just meant I was happy to be where I'm at right now, but obviously I'm going to have to go forward to keep progressing.  But today, it's going to take a little longer than one night to figure that out. 

 Q.  Can you just recount where you got your card and where you won and when was the last time you led a tournament after two rounds? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  I played '04 in the Nationwide.  '05, PGA Tour.  Lost my card in '05.  Then last year, I split time between -- played a few in Europe, Nationwide, just played all over the lot and got my card back on the Nationwide again.  This is my second full year on Tour.  I've won four times Nationwide and just the ones last year in Australia. 

 Q.  How is the course playing now?  And what are your plans for the next couple of days? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  It played very tough today.  The wind was pretty strong, pretty fresh all day long.  I thought the pins were a lot tougher today, noticeably tougher.  Just very happy to shoot the score I did.  I was kind of plodding along at even par most of the day and I was able to get a few late to make it a good round. 

 Q.  What are your plans for the next couple of days? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  Not try to do anything differently.  I'd love to be able to repeat this.  Obviously it's not too likely to shoot another 11-under par around here.  But just happy the way I've gone about it so far and don't plan on changing anything. 

 Q.  Can you elaborate about being able to swing more freely? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  Yeah, I came here, just basically what I'm doing, to enjoy the whole experience.  Not really -- not really taking it all that seriously.  That doesn't sound right but -- I don't know how to word this properly.  Very relaxed.  I'm in the mind frame where I wouldn't have minded if I had a bad week.  I just kind of came here to have fun. 
 I really enjoy these off-season events, the wintertime events for me, I seem to be a lot more relaxed.  Just very laid back, less stressful for me, because it doesn't really affect anything on the U.S. Tour, I can just kind of be in a state to just play more freely. 

 Q.  Seem to be a laid back guy but maybe you're not that laid back on the U.S. Tour; is that what you're saying? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  I don't know.  I'm definitely more comfortable now than I am over there.  I don't know why that is.  I do enjoy myself when I'm out of the country.  I don't know what the reason is for that, but I definitely feel more at ease when I'm playing over here. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  Thank you, Kevin and good luck over the weekend. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT