AT&T NATIONAL
July 7, 2007
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you tell us about the hole-in-one? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  Yeah, just had I think it was 190, 195 yards, which was like a perfect 6-iron at the time.  I just hit it flush, just a little left of the hole and never expected it was going to go in.  But thought I hit a really good shot and just kind of took a hop in the right direction.  Couldn't see it from the tee.  I was already walking, walking up there, when the place went crazy. 
 So I had no idea it was going to be within a couple of feet, but definitely nice to go in the hole. 

 Q.  Have you had one before? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  Yeah, I've had a few. 

 Q.  Ever had one in tournament? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  Yeah, I had a couple in tournaments in 2005.  Wasn't too long ago.  I had three in a month in the last -- two summers ago.  Would love to do that again. 

 Q.  Talk about the experience of trying to do well in a tournament and being paired with not only the No. 1 golfer in the world but the host. 
 KEVIN STADLER:  Yeah, it was great.  That was the most thoroughly enjoyable round of golf I've had in who knows how long.  I, for a change, didn't get in my own way out there and was just having fun and just taking all this in. 
 This is the biggest gallery I've ever had -- not that I've ever had but that I've ever been in.  It was really cool. 

 Q.  Have you ever played with him before? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  I've only played with him one other time last year, Bay Hill. 

 Q.  How was the gallery with all of the people rooting for Tiger? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  They were pretty good all day long, as good as I could expect.  They seemed like they were my favorite -- obviously not like his, but they were rooting me on, as well. 

 Q.  He looked like he missed an awful lot of putts. 
 KEVIN STADLER:  Yeah, he played great.  He played fantastic tee-to-green and really seemed to putt pretty well and just holed nothing. 
 So, I mean, I'm sure he'll be excited looking for tomorrow.  If he had another inch, it would have been 62, 63, 64 I think. 

 Q.  Is it still within reach? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  I don't think so.  He'd probably give you a different answer, but what is it, seven or eight back, I think there's too many guys in between.  You're going to have to have that -- I would have to have the round of my life out here to shoot 5-, 6-, 7-under, you would have to have that coupled with them dropping back a bit.  I guess I shouldn't say that it's not out of reach, but it's as far out as you can get at this point. 

 Q.  Does it seem like he's playing the same golf course when you see someone get to 10? 
 KEVIN STADLER:  I don't know what he's doing.  I didn't see all the scores but I think next was five or six.  To be that far ahead on a course this difficult is pretty impressive. 

 Q.  Do you ever look at a scoreboard and say, "Where is he playing?" 
 KEVIN STADLER:  I look at the boards all day every day except today because I couldn't even see them past all the people.  I didn't even see the board at all today until the big one here at 18. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT