ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2014
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You've played some good rounds of golf on the PGA TOUR this year.   How good was that one? 
KEVIN STADLER:   That was one of my best ones of the year for sure.   Not making bogey was something I didn't think possible in my practice rounds.

Q.   Some players think this is one of the best courses on Tour.   What were your impressions? 
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, fantastic.   It's one of my favorite courses.   It's spectacular.   People always talk about the last four here but I think they are doing a little discredit to the first 14.

Q.   Your place in The Open Championship was only confirmed a couple of days ago, a lot of guys come over and play The Scottish Open.   Why are you here this early?
KEVIN STADLER:   I've always wanted to come over here.   Just from the guys in the States, I've heard this is, as you said, one of the best events of the year and has not let me down.   Tried to make it work the last few years and has not quite fallen right for me.   So was happy to come over this year.

Q.   Your first win on the PGA TOUR came at the Phoenix Open. 
KEVIN STADLER:   Practically my backyard, so quite a week.   It was manic but it was a lot of fun.

Q.   Special week at the Masters, your dad and yourself playing; what was it like for you growing up with a father who is a major championship, and now the comparisons that are made? 
KEVIN STADLER:   I don't know any better.   I grew up just following him around playing golf.   That's what he did.   Just my dad.   Obviously it's great being able to do that, just chase him around, watch him play and start playing myself.   It was a special childhood for sure. 

Q.   Your thoughts on a different country and golf course? 
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, it was a great day.   Happy to be over here.   Just come for a bit of fun, something different for me to do.   Definitely enjoyed the golf course from the get‑go.   It's a wonderful place.   I had a very good day.

Q.   Does that attitude help, as well? 
KEVIN STADLER:   Absolutely.   Can't hurt.   It's easy for us to kind of fall into a lull.   I've been looking forward to this tournament for quite a while.   Spending three weeks over here. 

Q.   On the golf course, does it feel any different?   Does it feel French?   Does it feel European? 
KEVIN STADLER:   Absolutely.   I couldn't put a finger on what exactly that is but it certainly fields a little different.   Mind is a little at ease.   This is, I don't want to say an off‑week but something different.   Definitely more relaxed for me. 
Today the wind was practically nonexistent, and I think if there's ever a day to get the golf course, it was it. 

Q.   Have you seen anything? 
KEVIN STADLER:   We took a train yesterday, my first time here.   It was wonderful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT