MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You started out with double, really came back and had a strong round.   
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, double on the first and bogeys on the last two.   Pretty brutal way to start anything.  
   
 Q.   But in the middle you had some strong holes.   
KEVIN STADLER:   I suppose.   I didn't play very well today.   It's nice to make a few.   Very disappointing.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with the way you played overall in the tournament?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I guess so.   I mean I have no idea what position I'm in.   Make a few more on the back nine and I could have been in it but it just didn't happen.  
   
 Q.   That gets you back here next year, though, right, top 12, right?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah.   Certainly be a good reward, I just need a few minutes to let go over the last couple of holes there.  
   
 Q.   Talk about if you do come back (inaudible.)   What you've learned this week and what you experienced this week, and I'm sure at some point it will go through your head what you could have done just a little differently.   How excited would you be now if you returned next year?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Oh, absolutely.   I felt when I came out here a couple of weeks ago that the golf course suits my game.   And I made a lot of very obvious rookie errors out there with a number of shots away.   Just getting out of position from the middle of the fairway with short irons.   Sometimes being overly cautious, sometimes being too aggressive, just missing them on both sides.   
I made a couple of bogeys on 14 from the middle of the fairway from 140 yards, and two of them on 17 from the middle of the fairway, just make pars‑‑ just make pars all day long, when you hit irons and wedges from the middle of the fairway.   I drove the ball great.   I usually drive it pretty well.   And that's going to tee you up perfectly for this golf course.   
And the strength of my game is driving and short irons.   So you drive it in the fairway, you can have short irons all day long out here and it suits me pretty well.  
   
 Q.   There's really not much they could tell you, you kind of had to experience it yourself, your assessment?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Absolutely, yeah.   There's places that you try to avoid but then you're bound to hit in bad spots out here.   You don't figure out exactly where they are until you're out there yourself.   They can tell you all day long where not to hit it, but there's so many places out here where you can hit shots and end up and just be dead.   You have to feel your way around, I think.  
   
 Q.   I think your dad said that if you played next year, he would have to think of the idea of retiring.   But obviously you're going to be in the field next year, so I'm assuming he's going to have to rethink that?  
KEVIN STADLER:   You never know.   I don't know what he's going to do.   It's been a great week having him be out here.   It would be cool if he played again.   
I totally get it if he doesn't want to.   The golf course is too long, too tough for him anymore.   But I think he would still plan oncoming out, regardless, playing the par‑3 and all that stuff.   But he loves coming here.   But his score don't show, but he's still super competitive, and he hates putting up the numbers that he puts up around here.   It wouldn't surprise me if he's gone but I'd prefer him to come back.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you'll do differently in preparation next year?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I have no idea.   I felt pretty good coming in this week.   I'm not sure what I can do, just need to play the golf course more often, know where not to go.   
   
 Q.   I wonder if there were moments that were special over the week for you and your dad?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, I mean all day Tuesday and Wednesday was great.   The par‑3 was a blast.   It was pretty cool walking around here, seeing how much people here love him.   It was pretty cool.   
   
 Q.   Anything when you were coming off 18?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Not really.   I was a little too pissed off to talk to him, really.   But I'm sure I'll see him in a minute.  
   
 Q.   He knows better not to talk to you when you're like that?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, unfortunately I got a bad gene I inherited from him.   He knows what's going through my mind.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT