MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another good day.
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, it was okay.

Q.   How tough did the wind get out there today?
KEVIN STADLER:   It was pretty difficult.   It wasn't necessarily blowing this hard all day, but it was just blowing every which way.   It was messing with you on every shot.
It could be downwind for three straight minutes and then you could be walking the same direction and it could be straight back into your face.   So it was pretty tough.

Q.   It's obviously hard because you haven't really been around here that much to have to deal with that, on top of having to deal with your first time here.
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, for sure.   I think it was hard, regardless of how many times you've been around here today.
We sat there and 11 was straight into the wind.   I hit a 4‑iron from about 200 yards.   Then hit 9‑iron on 12 when I was thinking I was probably going to be hitting 7‑iron.   I ended up hitting 9‑iron there.
The group behind us, I saw a ball splash that was 25 yards short of the green.   The wind is crazy today.

Q.   Hard to keep your head above water when it's like that?
KEVIN STADLER:   I hit the ball great.   I just, unfortunately, made a lot of bogeys after pretty good shots where I just got out of position.   That's from hitting it in spots that I shouldn't be in.
But, no, I felt like I made the right play on 13 with my second shot and I hit it really solid and misjudged the wind and went long, where you can't go there, and ended up making six.   I was probably 10 steps from making an easy four.
And then on 14, I thought I hit a really close second shot and I misjudged it again and made bogey.
So that was two shots right there where I thought I hit great shots and was going to have good looks at birdies and made bogeys.   And that comes from not being out here a whole lot.

Q.   Even though you're six back, there's not that many guys between you and the leader.   What do you think, on the weekend, obviously you're going to have to shoot something a little better and Bubba would have to come back a little.
KEVIN STADLER:   The leader is pretty darn good around here.   This place was built for him.   I don't see him backing up.
It's going to be tough.   It's only going to get firmer and it's going to be tough to make birdies.
I kind of feel like that my back nine today could happen to anybody, where I played really well and shot 3‑over.   So just kind of a matter of what happens out there.

Q.   Two rounds under your belt.   Is there anything, not about the course, but about the Tournament that has surprised you?
KEVIN STADLER:   Not really.   It's been as good as I was expecting it to be.   It's fantastic.   It's been a blast so far.

Q.   What were your thoughts standing on the first tee, what was the brain doing and that?
KEVIN STADLER:   I was a little bit nervous.   There was nothing too, too bad.   I kind of skanked one out there in the middle and we were going.
But I was a little bit nervous to get on the first tee today.   I hit a great drive down the middle and hit it on the green and got under way.   So that was the only time I was a little uncomfortable was that first tee the first two days.   But other than that, no.

Q.   Was it nice to look up and see the ball going straight after the nerves?
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, that's what you're supposed to do, right?

Q.   Favorite hole so far?
KEVIN STADLER:   Got to be 12.   I've gotten through there in 2, 2, so far.   So I've gotten away with that one.

Q.   13 you struggled and then 14 coming off the tee you said something that made your playing partners laugh.   Is that your style to kind of keep it cool?
KEVIN STADLER:   I just told them, I was asking them a question, I said I was probably better off hitting my second shot in the water than hitting it in the bunker.   And they got a chuckle out of that.   Figured I probably could have made five from the water instead of six from the trap.

Q.   Scott and Martin, how were they to play with?
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah.   Martin was fantastic to play with, he played really well and probably will be disappointed with himself.   He played great, he should be right in there, but he struggled on the back nine.

Q.   Did you know him?
KEVIN STADLER:   Not at all.   It's the first time I really played with him.   It was great.

Q.   When you hit a bad shot or hit a shot that didn't go your way, how tough is it to come back and pick up a birdie?
KEVIN STADLER:   I really didn't ‑‑ I struck almost every shot exactly how I wanted to.   Except for the second shot on 17, I was in between clubs and hit a terrible shot there and made bogey.   But other than that, even though I was making bogeys, I felt like I was striking the ball really, really well.   So there's nothing to get discouraged about.

Q.   How do you balance a cool feeling of being at your first Masters without being overawed so you can actually go out and play and do well?
KEVIN STADLER:   Once you're off and running down that first fairway, I don't think anybody's going to be overawed.   It's just another golf tournament.   It might be the best golf tournament on the planet, but it's just another day of professional golf, once you get going.

Q.   Practice this afternoon or resting?
KEVIN STADLER:   Yeah, just hit a few.   I got a couple short irons I need to work out of there for the weekend.   But other than that I feel like I'm playing pretty well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT