MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Kevin Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Talk about today, a little chilly this morning, that opening tee shot.   
KEVIN STADLER:   It was cold.   I hit a pretty poor tee shot.   It went in the fairway, but I was happy to get it under way.   A little bit nervous on the tee, but that's got to be expected, I would say.  
   
 Q.   What went well today?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Struck the ball fairly well, didn't drive it as well as I had the last couple days.   I kept it in play and hit a bunch of greens and kept away from the 3‑putts, so it was a good thing today.   
   
 Q.   Your nerves.   Can you compare them to any other tournament that you've played in?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Not really.   I was actually pretty good to go after the first hole.   It was pretty cool standing there watching the Tournament on TV for 30 years and to be standing there on the first tee getting ready to play, it was a pretty cool experience.  
   
 Q.   How did your first tee shot go?  
KEVIN STADLER:   In the fairway, just not very far.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   You were teeing off not too far after Arnie, Gary, and Jack.   So you had that crush.   What did you think?   
KEVIN STADLER:   I didn't get to see it.   I was wandering up when they were over here, so, unfortunately, if I had been a group following them, I would have seen it.   But I was right in the middle of the warm‑up.  
   
 Q.   Did your dad end up giving you‑‑ did you end up giving your dad a few a side?  
KEVIN STADLER:   No, no, no.   No betting.   
   
 Q.   How much advice did your dad give you?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Not a whole lot, to be honest.   I think he was really wanting me to find my own way around here.   Not wanting to ‑‑ I suppose he's not wanting me to over think everything out here, telling me where and where not to go, just letting me figure out my own way.   
He was saying a few things, but really you can't figure out the spots you don't need to be in, until you hit it there.   It's something that comes with a lot of experience around here.  
   
 Q.   Wondering, you heard the course changes a lot from the practice to the tournament.   
KEVIN STADLER:   I'm sure.  
   
 Q.   How did it change?  
KEVIN STADLER:   It was perfect today, so it was, I assume it's just going to get harder and harder and harder, because I thought today was ideal.   Greens were just holding just enough and very quick.   They had a few inches of rain a few days ago and it's kind of scary.   So it's going to get tough over the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Was there a point during this round where you kind of looked at the crowd and said, I earned my way here?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Not really, maybe the first tee.   Other than that, I didn't think about any of that stuff.   Once I got off the box there, it was back just into competitive mode.  
   
 Q.   What about now?   You put up a good number today.   You start to believe a little bit, right?  
KEVIN STADLER:   Well, yeah, you got to believe regardless, but it's just one day and I obviously want to do it three more times, but just happy with day one.  
   
 Q.   What's it like standing there with your dad's name on that board and then playing through with him today around here.   
KEVIN STADLER:   I don't know, it was nothing out of the ordinary.   I'm used to seeing his name up there.   They put the scores up for us everywhere we go, so.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a goal going into today score‑wise?  
KEVIN STADLER:   No, not at all.   
   
 Q.   You probably would have taken 2‑under?  
KEVIN STADLER:   I'll take 2‑under all day every day the rest of my life.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT