MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2019
Amanda Levens
Terae Briggs
Jade Redmon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Boise State - 72, Nevada - 67
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Nevada head coach Amanda Levens and student-athletes Terae Briggs and Jade Redmon.
COACH LEVENS: I'm proud of our team.  We fought and competed and gave ourselves a chance to win.  I'm just really proud of their effort.  Obviously Jade played phenomenally, just scored extremely well all game.  And Terae did what she kind of always does for us, close to a double-double.
I'm going to miss our seniors, can really count on them every day.  And I told our team after the game there's three teams in Division I that don't end their season with a loss.  It hurts no matter when it happens, but I was just really proud of our effort today.
Q. 37 from Hodgins tonight.  Seemed like whenever they needed a shot she was hitting it.  What did you see from her?
COACH LEVENS: She shot the ball extremely well, and she has been all year.  I thought she's done a great job when Riley got hurt, and stepping up and taking on not only Riley's load but continuing what she was already doing.  She got 15 free throws, too.  That helped.
Q. You guys have obviously played them real close at your place and last year was a buzzer-beater down here.  What is it about when you guys play them?  It's a good matchup for you guys.
COACH LEVENS: I just think our team, we compete.  We fight.  We try -- our goal every game is to put ourselves in a position to win.  And we're a program that doesn't have a tradition of winning yet.  For our team we're just trying to put ourselves in a position to win and establish a winning culture and a winning program.
So for the two years I've been there I've been proud of both teams, both years that they just fight and buy into whatever it takes to try to win this game.  We win ugly a lot and we keep ourselves in games because we just never quit.  And so like I said, just really proud of these guys today.
Q. Obviously Boise was a top seed for a reason.  What makes them, I guess, as good as they are and how tough of a matchup are they for any team?
COACH LEVENS: They just can score at any position.  And Harrell does a great job rebounding and getting O board put-backs.  Nobody really plays outside of their skill set and they don't force anything.
And they run really simple stuff but they run it extremely well.  And I think it's just a great testament to coaches.  It doesn't have to be a fancy play; it's how you run it.  And they can all shoot off of screens and they really play to their strengths and share the ball extremely well.
Q. Who knows what will happen today but if they don't win the tournament they may not get in.  Are they an NCAA Tournament to you?
COACH LEVENS: I think so, yeah, because we played a few teams from the Pac-12.  I came from the Pac-12 and just the familiarity of that kind of thing.  But they played Louisville really tough for the first half this season.  And I do think if they got in the tournament, in the right matchups they can win a couple games in it.  How far they'll go, I don't know.
Q. So you first got here two seasons ago, and that summer you were just trying to establish a culture.  And then this past summer you were focusing on continuing that culture and you had summer programming for fitness and mental health.  In your efforts to become a championship team, what programming are you planning this summer with the incoming freshmen?
COACH LEVENS: That's a great question.  I haven't really thought about our offseason plans.  We were trying to play as long as we could.
I do foresee us adding some additional players this spring, up to four or five.  That will determine what we do.  Last summer it was based on what we felt what the needs of the team were to improve kind of their mental and emotional strength, to be honest.  So I think it will just depend on what our team needs.
Q. Give us your thoughts on today's game and about your career at Nevada.
JADE REDMON: Well, first and foremost, obviously we're a team full of underclassmen.  I thought that our underclassmen fought really hard and played extremely well for us, which made me really happy and happy for them as I hope they bring that into their future seasons.  But, yeah, it's been a long career for me.  Obviously I've gotten hurt a few times.  This is my sixth year.  But I just want to thank the current staff for accepting me and putting me in a great position to play a great brand of basketball.  And obviously it didn't end how I had hoped but overall I'm very satisfied with my career and happy with how it went.
TERAE BRIGGS: Kind of what Jade said.  I'm really happy to be a part of this program.  We did a lot of big things.  We went from a program that didn't really win a lot of games to winning, going to the WBI last year and kind of making a run this year.  I felt like the same, the freshmen fought.  And they just fought for us, for sure.  My career has been amazing.  And I got to meet new people.  I don't know, it's been a lot of fun.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT