KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2016
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously great day, despite 18.  Can you tell us a little bit about it?  
CANDIE KUNG: Everything went pretty smooth out there today.  The greens were definitely smoother than the last couple days with less footprints and I played earlier than a lot of people.  So the greens were smooth.  I played great.   
I had a very good 17 and a half holes.   
 Q.  17 and a half holes, as you're headed to 18, tell us a little bit about what happened on 18.  
CANDIE KUNG: It was just one of those shots that I put a bad swing on it and it happened on the wrong hole.  Happened on the wrong shot.  I didn't think I missed it that -- the shot that I missed, if it would have been on the other holes, it would have been okay.  It wasn't really that far left of where I was aiming, but it happens.   
 Q.  What was the key for you out there?  
CANDIE KUNG: I was pretty relaxed out there today.  I was having a lot of fun.  The girl I played with, she was pretty fast.  I think pace of play was the key.  We were all playing pretty fast.   
 Q.  Is that the difference between the morning and the afternoon on this course, do you think?  
CANDIE KUNG: Oh, yeah, for sure.  The pace of play, and also the footprints on the green, makes a big difference, too.  The short putts, you get a lot of footprints, like a 3-footer, and you kind of just hit it and pray for it to go in.   
 Q.  A round like this puts you in good position and you have to be good headed into the final day?  
CANDIE KUNG: Definitely, I'm going to have some fun tomorrow like today and we'll see.  Maybe I'll have another 9-under through 17 and I can finish with a birdie, I can finish with 10-under.   
 Q.  One thing they say on moving day, when you tee off early, it's easy to do scoring because there's nothing in it, but there's something to be said for it being easy and doing it?  
CANDIE KUNG: You kind of don't really think about it.  You just go out and play your own game.  The wind was calm in the morning and I was able to figure out what club to hit, because around here, the wind kind of blows around and you can't quite figure that out.   
But yeah, Saturday, you go out there and try to shoot as low a round as you can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT