HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2016
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under for the tournament, just three shots back from the lead, but tell us about your round today.
CANDIE KUNG: I got a little bit unlucky today I think, a couple shots out there to the back, but bad bounce and a few putts that lipped-out, I mean really lipped-out.  Left a few shots out there but I played pretty good.  Looking forward to the next couple days.
Q. Seven straight pars from the 12th.  Were you getting frustrated at that point?
CANDIE KUNG: A little bit, little bit.  From the double bogey that I had, I actually hit a great tee shot there and it ended up not in the bunker, just outside the bunker and just a bad lie.  But overall, I'm very happy with the way I played.
Q. I know we were talking about having fun out there on the course.  Was it difficult to have fun out there today?
CANDIE KUNG: No, actually I prepare myself for it.  I know where I'm at sitting in the lead after round one, which is nothing, because there's still three more days to go.  And our game plan was to go out there and have fun, and we did.
Q. If someone told you you would shoot even par today, would you have taken it at that point?
CANDIE KUNG: Oh, yeah, for sure, for sure.  It's tough conditions out there.  Pin placements were tough and windy, no wind, windy, makes it even harder to adjust to the clubs.  But I'm pretty happy with the way I played.
Q. Is there anything you're going to do to prepare for tomorrow?  It's 3:15 now.  Will you go back to the driving range or do some putting?
CANDIE KUNG: I might hit a couple putts, that's about it, and pretty much rest up.  It's pretty tiring out here.
Q. You just left your putts a bit short today, did you?
CANDIE KUNG: No, no, actually I got them to the hole but they just lipped-out.
Q. Frustrating?
CANDIE KUNG: A little bit.
Q. Didn't get off to a fantastic start, but you actually fought back incredibly well.  You were really solid at the end?
CANDIE KUNG: I played pretty good all day.  Just got a couple bad bounces here and there and a couple lip-outs.  Other than that, I feel like I played great.
Q. You've taken double at 11.  What does that do?  Do you just put it to the back of your mind and then just kick on and keep going?  You're experienced.  You've been around for a long time?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I had a couple lip-outs before that already, so I just kind of feel like it's one of those days where it's not going my way, but if I can keep it in play, keep hitting good shots, then we'll see -- at the end of the day it would be great.
Q. We talked about how if the wind picks up a lot, you would be one player that would be probably relatively excited to see that happen.
CANDIE KUNG: Yes, I actually expected the wind to blow, but it actually stopped on me.  Those were the holes that I made bogeys on.
Q. But that was a bit of a surprise, because we thought the weather was going to be really quite rough today but it ended up much calmer than we initially thought?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I think it was because of storms coming in, so the wind died down a little bit before the storm.  But we were lucky that the wind picked up and blew the clouds away.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT