HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 3, 2016
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're in the clubhouse lead with a round of 67, looking at the scores, that was great?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, it's awesome.  Hopefully I can keep it up there till Sunday.
Q. You started on 10, and a great eagle on the 12th hole, your third hole today, tough par 5 but not for you?
CANDIE KUNG: It is.  The wind was a little calm back then, five hours ago.  I was able to get up there in two and made my putt from about six feet.
Q. You've been playing very well, and you were runner-up at Blue Bay and you seemed to play well when there's windy conditions?
CANDIE KUNG: I love wind.  Windy is good.  It makes it tough for everybody.  Brings everybody into the game.  You have to hit good shot out there and make your putts.
Q. You make a good impression in 2016, you've had Top-20 finish starts in the first three outings, so it's looking good this week.  Your game is really coming together?
CANDIE KUNG: It is.  I've been working hard in the off-season.  I've got a great team behind me working on different parts of my game.  Really looking forward to this year and the great start that I had the last three tournaments helped a lot.  Hopefully I can put it all together one of these weeks.
Q. How many birdies?
CANDIE KUNG: I think I had five birdies and an eagle.  The eagle, I got a good bounce there.  Bounced it up to about six feet from the hole and I made the putt.  The wind was calm back then, four hours ago, on that hole.  So it was a lot easier.  Otherwise that hole would be into the wind.
Q. So have you been playing well all year?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I started pretty good the last three tournaments.
Q. And anything different over the off-season that you've done, training?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I was in the gym a little bit and I think we pretty much have a good program put together for my off-season.  I was really looking forward to this year, actually.  I have a great team behind me.  I have good coaches and I have a great caddie on my bag.  Overall, I mean, how I finished last year, I was just looking forward to this year.  I didn't want to stop, but I have to prepare myself for this season.  I know there was something missing in my game.
We were able to sit down and look at it and work on it.
Q. Was it a sort of round table meeting that you had to discuss what you needed to do?
CANDIE KUNG: No, my coach likes to stay behind the scenes and pretty much is what I think that I need to improve on my game, and I tell him about it and they will think about it and they come up with a plan.
Q. So what did you tell them at the end?
CANDIE KUNG: I need more distance off the tee, which I think I've gained, about 20 yards off the tee.  And I need to work on my short game, which we did that, too.  I'm seeing a little improvement.
Q. And what's made most difference to your length, is it the gym work or is it equipment?
CANDIE KUNG: I didn't change anything at all.  I have the exact same driver I had last year.
Q. So where are those 20 yards coming from?
CANDIE KUNG: It's from the gym, and it's not weights.  We didn't do any weights at all.  Flexibility, like really tight.
Q. The sort of tightness that comes from playing -- just sort of not doing enough stretching over the years?
CANDIE KUNG: Just from aging.
Q. You don't look very old to me.
CANDIE KUNG: 15 years on Tour (laughs).
Q. Do you ever get fed up or not?  Do you ever think 15 years is enough?
CANDIE KUNG: At first I was thinking about ten.  And now I just keep going.  Who knows when I'm going to stop.  You never know.
Q. Originally, you set yourself a target of ten.  And then what did you have in mind to do when you said ten years?
CANDIE KUNG: Nothing.  Because I started when I was 20, yeah.  So 30, it was a good time, 30, start something else.  But I guess there was nothing else going on my life, so I'm still here.
Q. Still happy, still playing.
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I'm actually happier now playing golf.
Q. I take it that the matching bag and shirt are an accident?  I've noticed your golf bag is the same color as your shirt.
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I like purple.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT