BLUE BAY LPGA
October 30, 2015
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Simply outstanding in really tough conditions today.  
CANDIE KUNG: It was really tough out there.  We were just battling out there counting down on holes.  Just hitting one shot at a time and hoping that it bounced to the right quadrant and have a birdie putt at it.   
 Q.  You've been playing yourself into some pretty good form recently.  
CANDIE KUNG: I've been playing pretty well lately.  Just hoping for that one good week.   
 Q.  How much does your experience help you get around a course like this?  
CANDIE KUNG: I don't think much at all because the wind is blowing so hard.  I think you've just got to be patient out there and one shot at a time, and like I said, hopefully it bounced to where you want it.   
 Q.  Coming from Taiwan, you've got to be really used to playing in the wind, though.  
CANDIE KUNG: Not really.  Actually coming from Texas, I should be used to playing in the wind, because it got pretty windy out there.   
 Q.  Was it a surprise to find -- you've had rounds of 71,72, to find you're actually tied for the lead going into the second to last round?  
CANDIE KUNG: That's a pretty good score.  We have two more rounds to go and hopefully it will be a red number by the end of the week.   
 Q.  Tell me just how difficult are these greens?  
CANDIE KUNG: The greens are actually not that difficult.  It's the wind that makes it very difficult to judge how far you're hitting the ball and how you're going to, hoping it to bounce how you want it.   
 Q.  Is it going to be a battle of the fittest getting around here if this wind keeps up?  
CANDIE KUNG: I think it's mental big time, because you have to be patient out there.  Like I hit a few shots today that I told myself to be patient and just try to get up-and-down and hit it in the right spot.   
 Q.  When was the last time you've had this tough of wind?  
CANDIE KUNG: Last week.  We thought we left Taiwan already.  And then we come here, it's even stronger.  I actually asked my caddie today, "Is it stronger here or Taiwan."  It's pretty much the same, because I was hitting pretty much the same shot to about the same number.   
 Q.  Going into the weekend with such high scores kind of just being in the lead, is there anyway that you approach it differently?  
CANDIE KUNG: No, it's going to be the same.  Patience out there; that's the key.   
 Q.  And it's so stacked now at the top, people within a couple shots.  Is that something you kind of thrive on?  
CANDIE KUNG: It can go one way or another.  With this course, if you hit your ball to, like I said, bounce it to the right quadrant where the hole is, you have a lot of birdie opportunities.   
 Q.  So there are low numbers out there.  
CANDIE KUNG: The groups that went out early, they probably got a few holes in without wind, and that makes it a lot easier.   
 Q.  A lot more wind in the afternoon, you think?  
CANDIE KUNG: Oh, yeah.  As long as we started, it was windy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT