CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2015
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Feel good heading into tomorrow?  
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, feeling pretty good.  Feeling pretty good today.  I hit the ball good and it was actually one of the best ball-striking days I had all week.  Just missed a couple putts here and there.  Those were all wrong reads.  But I'm hitting it good, putting it good.   
 Q.  Confident heading into tomorrow?  
CANDIE KUNG: Yes, I'm actually very relaxed.  After what I went through last week, I'm actually feeling quite comfortable where I'm at right now.   
 Q.  A bit of a nervous start but you got it together.  
CANDIE KUNG: Not quite.  It wasn't nervous.  Actually I was very calm on the first hole.  It was just a bad number on the first hole, and a bad putt on the first hole, that second one.  But other than that, I played great all day.   
 Q.  Greens any different today?  Any faster?  
CANDIE KUNG: Balls are actually flying a lot further today, and greens are bouncing pretty good.  But they are still rolling very nicely.   
 Q.  What's the difference being tied for the lead --  
CANDIE KUNG: It's all going to be the same tomorrow.  It's just 18 holes, one shot at a time, one putt at a time and we'll see what happens at the end of the day.   
 Q.  You mentioned yesterday that you were having more fun out there with a new caddie on the bag.  Kind of saw you out there a few times; you were always smiling.  What's he done for you and helped you in your game?  
CANDIE KUNG: We're just very relaxed out there.  He helped me a lot on reading the greens, which helped very, very much.  And we're just having a lot of fun out there.  I mean, we talk about anything and everything.  You probably don't want to put a mic right next to us, but we are having fun.   
 Q.  He gets in the Spiderman pose occasionally.  
CANDIE KUNG: Occasionally, yes, yes, to get a good read.  And I have to hit a good putt, too.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT