CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2015
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your round ties the course record.  What made it so special?  
CANDIE KUNG: Nothing really.  I just went out there, played one shot at a time, and I knew that I was putting pretty good.  I missed a few out there from about ten feet.  I was hitting them pretty close all day.  And then made some key putts coming in.   
 Q.  Make any long ones?  
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, yeah, I made a couple long ones coming in.  The one on that par 3, 16, somehow the ball bounced all the way to the back and I made the one coming back down the hill, left-to-righter.  That was about 30 feet.   
 Q.  You were second last week in Portland, right?  
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.   
 Q.  You came here with some momentum on your side I guess.  
CANDIE KUNG: I guess so.  I've been playing well.  Just the putter has to go and so far, it's been going pretty good the last six tournament days.   
 Q.  You made eagle, as well.  
CANDIE KUNG: I did.  That was the par 5, a little dogleg-left.  I kind of had a perfect number to the front.  I had 220 to the front and it was seven on.  I hit a good shot, exactly where I wanted and took the bounce and somehow rolled it up to a foot.  So it was easy.   
 Q.  I think I read your stats were 2008, the last time you won a tournament.  What does it mean to getting and be in this again?  
CANDIE KUNG: I've been working pretty hard lately.  I guess it was a slump that I had back 2010, 2011, I just got caught up in life a little bit.  Now I feel like I can get back into it again, play some golf, have some fun.  And I have a good guy on my bag right now, so we're looking forward to the weekend.  We're just going to have some fun out there and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Did you play here in 2012?  
CANDIE KUNG: No, I didn't.   
 Q.  So you're seeing the golf course for the first time this week?  
CANDIE KUNG: Correct.   
 Q.  Heard a lot of talk about the greens.  You really have to sort of be careful positioning your ball around the golf course.  Is that the key this weekend when it's supposed to get a little warmer and the greens get even firmer?  
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, the key to this course, I think what I figure out on Tuesday playing that one practice round, was to keep everything below the hole if you can.  Because from back of the green downhill, downgrain, down everything, it's very fast.  So we're trying to keep the ball below the hole all the time.   
 Q.  Do you play for Taiwan or are you an American now?  
CANDIE KUNG: I've been in the US for a long time but I was born in Taiwan.  I mean, I would still call myself Taiwanese.   
 Q.  You said you're having fun.  Was it fun out there today?  
CANDIE KUNG: It was.  At one point, it wasn't so much fun because I was missing all the 10-footers.  But we've been having a lot of fun out there.  We just talk about anything and everything.   
 Q.  Are there any nerves with Lydia -- she's won before --  
CANDIE KUNG: I have not looked at the leaderboard until you said it.  That's good to know.  But we're going to have some fun out there.  I really don't care who is behind me.  I'm just going to go out there, play my one shot at a time.  I'm hitting it good, I'm putting it good, and let's see what happens.   
 Q.  Just looking ahead, not behind?  
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, we could say that.  I've been playing good.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT