U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 >Q. Even through 16, right?CANDIE KUNG: 17.
Q. 17.  What does stopping like this do?  Does it hurt your momentum, does it hurt your focus, how does it affect you to have to stop with one hole to play where you are?CANDIE KUNG: It definitely hurts a little bit of the momentum going finishing the round, but I kind of expected this to happen.  Just because of the we they are the last few days that we were here, we were knowing that at night, during the night time, 5, 6 o'clock, we're going to get some storms popping up here and there.  So I was kind of prepared for that.  This was actually good.  I was actually thinking about playing nine and then have a little dinner time and then go back for another nine more.  But this was good.  We got to finish 17 holes.
Q. How did you keep it wasn't striking distance today?  What were the keys to your round?CANDIE KUNG: I just played smart.  I know, I kind of look at the pin placements, make sure where not to go to and where would be the best place to make par from.  I did that pretty good today and I was able to make some putts.
Q. The early finish tomorrow morning, what does that do to your routine, because things just sort of get a little jumbled right now.CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, it's going to be a hard one because we start at 6:45, and then my next tee time is not until 8:42 or something, somewhere around there.  So I really, I'm not too sure what I'm going to be doing tomorrow morning, just because I only have one shot left.  I'm going to have to think about that before I go to bed tonight.
Q. You have one shot left?CANDIE KUNG: I have one, well one shot and then to the green.  So I'm in the middle of the fairway.
Q. All right.CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.
Q. How do you feel about your place right now and how things went today overall?CANDIE KUNG: Things went very good today.  Like I said, I played position where I want the ball to be and they pretty much ended up where I was thinking, so that was good.  I just got to continue to do the same thing the next few days and be patient.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT