KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 27, 2010
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: We're here with Candie Kung. Congratulations on a great 3-under par round 69. Can you talk about your round today? 
 CANDIE KUNG: It's been -- it was a pretty good round, started a little up and down, birdied the first hole, bogeyed the second and kind of got myself into a groove again playing steady. 
 The wind was blowing pretty hard out there for the first, probably, 13 holes, and then it died down on us for some reason, I don't know. 
 I played pretty good over all. 

 Q. You bounced back well from your opening round 74. What was the difference between your game the first day compared to the last two days? 
 CANDIE KUNG: The first day I've been having that kind of day for a while. My coach got to see it, that round, which I'd been telling him about it for a while, and he kind of just told me, you know what, keep focusing on your game, try to see your shot.
 I've been making mistakes around the greens and he told me to see my shots, same as from tee to green, and I've been saving a lot of pars around the greens. 

 Q. Who is your coach? 
 CANDIE KUNG: Adam Schreiber. 

 Q. Not a lot of low rounds out there today. Is the course playing tougher today than it has? 
 CANDIE KUNG: I thought we got lucky when we first got out there. The wind switched on us. 
 The last two days the wind was blowing into us, coming in the last few holes on the front nine, and it actually switched to downwind, so the course is actually playing easier when we first started, then it switched on me on my second shot on -- I think it's 7. 
 My drive went straight down to like 100 yards, yet the last two days I hit a 5-wood into that green, yesterday; today I hit a wedge in there. But the wind switched on that second shot, and I had to stop, and it was blowing for the last two days, but I thought we got lucky. 

 Q. How were the pin placements today? It appears there were a lot of tucked locations. 
 CANDIE KUNG: I've been telling my caddie, do they think we're playing the PGA Tour here? They're tough. I played smart and the greens are holding good, so depending on the wind and how it's blowing, if it's going to blow the same as the last couple of days, then the course is going to play tough again tomorrow. 

 Q. So if the course plays tough tomorrow, with a 4-stroke lead, which is what the leader has now, can you catch her? 
 CANDIE KUNG: Oh, yeah, if you get lucky out there, if you get the bounce that you need, the bounce in the hole, then you can catch her for sure. 

 Q. With your Fountain Valley and USC roots, do you have any family and friends out here watching you? 
 CANDIE KUNG: Yes, yes, always. My high school coach is always out here.

 Q. Who is that?
 CANDIE KUNG: Don Terranova. He's always out here when we have tournaments out here in California. Then I saw my coach from USC, she's out here, too, and then a couple of my friends. 

 Q. And are you living in Texas? 
 CANDIE KUNG: Yes. 

 Q. Doesn't Anthony Kim work with Adam Schreiber? 
 CANDIE KUNG: Yes.

 Q. Do you ever practice with Anthony? 
 CANDIE KUNG: I did a couple of times. Our schedule is so different, and he travels so much. My coach is with him now. I asked him to stay for one more day -- he was going to leave on Thursday, but I asked him to stay to watch me. 

 Q. You played with Christina Kim today. What was the dynamic like in the group? 
 CANDIE KUNG: Can I say this? I told my caddie on the third hole, it was like, "Do you still have the ear plugs from the Asia trip on the plane that they gave us?" And he was like, "Yeah, I thought about that." We needed them. 
 But she was fun to play with. She's always fun. 

 Q. Candie, you've had four wins on the LPGA Tour; your last was in 2008. Do you feel that your game, your mental and physical game are ready for tomorrow? 
 CANDIE KUNG: I think my physical game is ready. Mental part, I was a little screwed up earlier in the year last year, and then towards the end of last year. I'm going to have a talk with my coach and we'll go from there. 

 Q. Your past wins have you had to come back in the final round? 
 CANDIE KUNG: I think Korea I did, because I was -- I wasn't in the last group in Korea, and then the other three I think I was in the lead. 

 Q. Who was your USC coach that was here today? 
 CANDIE KUNG: Andrea Gaston. 
 HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Thanks, Candie. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT