SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 28, 2016
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's start with your sensational round.  So far it is the round of the day.  The course seemed to play a lot harder, but you played better?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, there were some tough pin placements out there today, a lot tougher than yesterday but I was able to hit it close and make the putts.  Yesterday, I didn't make any putts at all.  But today, luckily they all went in.
Q. What a great ending.
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, that was an awesome chip.  I saw one went in yesterday when we were finishing off and today it was my turn.
Q. As we were mentioning, you've been on Tour a long, long time, and there was a point in time when you said you wanted to give it all up.  When was that and what changed your mind?
CANDIE KUNG: That was about, I want to say about nine years ago back in 2007.  I just felt I had had it, but for some reason, somebody up there was telling me that they gave me a talent and to keep playing golf, and here I am.  I'm happy to be here and loving it.
Q. How hard are you working on your game at the moment?  Because you are producing some really good results this year, and last year, as well.
CANDIE KUNG: I'm actually taking a different approach in making.  Practicing a lot smarter now and just focusing on the stuff I need to work on, like short game, putting.  I've been working on that the last couple months and I think it's been showing off and hopefully it will continue to go on for the next couple rounds.  Hopefully all the way until I finish my career.
Q. There's a lot of talk amongst the girls about trying to have fun out on the course.  Is that one of your priorities, as well, or are you out there to win it?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, having fun is a big thing out here because we're grinding every single day and luckily I have someone on my bag, my caddie, who is very positive out and having a lot of fun out there.  Doesn't matter if I hit a good shot or a bad shot; it's just a golf shot.  We're just having fun out there.
Q. You're really in the running, only three shots behind the leader; does that change your strategy going into the weekend?
CANDIE KUNG: Not really.  I've been playing some really good golf.  Like I said, if I can make some putts here and there, that could be very helpful.  And this course can change; the last few holes coming in, 14, 15, 16, everything can change.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT