HANA BANK ● KOLON CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2008
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CANDIE KUNG: It's been a long time and I'm just so happy to be back in that winning circle again. I've been pretty close a few times this year and just happy to be back and finally get a win before the season ends.  
  
  Q. Can we get the scorecard?  
  
CANDIE KUNG: Bogey on 8, I hit an 8-iron into the bunker and hit it out to 12 feet.  
 9, I had a lob-wedge, just one bounce in.   
 16, lob-wedge to 12 feet past the hole.  
 17, I'm on the right side of the green, had about 40 feet, 3-putted from there, 6-iron in.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about winning today?   
 CANDIE KUNG: I'm feeling great. It's great to be back in the winning circle again and before the season ends, it's been a long time. I've got a few more tournaments left and hopefully I can do it again.   
  
  Q. There were some strong winds out there, and the weather was not really cooperative, either, quite chilly. How did you sort of brave through all of these elements?  
 CANDIE KUNG: It's been really cold this week, and I've been hitting the ball solid, so the wind didn't really affect that much. I just go out there and keep playing on my own game and make sure I'm hitting good shots.   
 I know that I was going to hit good shots, every time I stand over the ball, I know the ball was going to go where I'm looking at, so I'm pretty confident over there and pretty much just played each shot by each shot, and it turned out well.   
  
  Q. Taiwanese players have a forte in windy weather; is that the case?   
 CANDIE KUNG: Taiwanese players?   
  
  Q. And is it the same with you as well?   
 CANDIE KUNG: How many Taiwanese players are we talking about here? Because I only know four.   
  
  Q. Not just the LPGA players, contemporary LPGA players, but in the past as well when Taiwanese players came over to Korea, the men, they were all renowned for playing well in gusts and in winds and braving the elements; so that's what the overall Korean sentiment is to the Taiwanese players, they are good in windy situations and therefore has been sort of a reputation that Taiwanese courses are quite windy. Is that the case?   
 CANDIE KUNG: That, I don't know too much about because I didn't play golf in Taiwan and I played very, very few rounds in Taiwan, but for myself, I'm a pretty good ball-striker I think, and that's the advantage I take in the windy conditions. I can hit the ball where I want it, and the wind not affect it that much. I think that is all I can say about that.   
  
  Q. Was it the first, or the second shot to the 9th, did you have some pain in your knee?  
 CANDIE KUNG: Oh, yeah, it was my second shot out of the rough. I hit a 5-wood and it just happened to pull one of the muscles and from there on, I just said, keep playing, we have nine more holes left. The physio came out to look at it. You know, just asking for some stretches to get me through the nine holes, and I took some Advil and I've got the heat pack still in my back pocket now. It just a little pain and I could still feel it the first few holes after it happened.   
  
  Q. But you eagled it.   
 CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.   
  
  Q. How come?   
 CANDIE KUNG: I think it's just a little distraction instead of putting too much into the shot and kind of got distracted a little bit. That kind of, you know, is what happened before, to me, I'm not -- sometimes when I'm in contention, I'll be too focused into the game and that kind of goes the other way for me for my game. But it kind of helped a little bit.   
  
  Q. So you used it to your advantage?   
 CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Which leg is it?   
 CANDIE KUNG: The left.   
  
  Q. This is your first win in five seasons?  
 CANDIE KUNG: Four or five -- six.   
  
  Q. Taiwan has a lot of similarities to Korea and Japan, and ladies golf and golf in general is really high profile, but to see one of the up-and-coming Taiwanese players win a major championship and still get -- not get a lot of coverage in the local papers and that Yani Tseng is still struggling to get a sponsorship is perplexing. Do you know why that is so and what is the current status of Taiwanese golf in the world market?  
 CANDIE KUNG: We don't have too many players right now in total; what, five right now? And I think that's part of the reason why there's not a lot of people following golf.   
 But I do know that there is a lot of them that follow golf, in the background that do not appear on the table. And there's only very few reporters doing golf and so that's probably the reason why. Very happy to see what's going on over here in Korea, the full gallery, everybody, it's awesome.   
  
  Q. How does this course in your feeling rank among the other courses on the LPGA Tour this season, or in general?   
 CANDIE KUNG: In general, I any this course is awesome, it's in great shape, first time we are here. I guess they closed the course before we came here, and it's unbelievable here, and compared to what we play in the U.S., I think it's one of the top golf course we play all year.   
  
  Q. This course is going to commemorate your championship over here by naming the tournament course the Candie Kung course for one year. Did you know about that?   
 CANDIE KUNG: I didn't know about that.   
  
  Q. Well, they are going to do it and they actually announced it out there. How do you feel about that?   
 CANDIE KUNG: Cool. There's going to be more Koreans that know me. Seriously, there's more people that know me than any other place. I go outside and people are like, "Candie Kung, Candie Kung." I'm like, okay, do I look Korean to you?   
 But that's great. It's going to be awesome.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT