NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 28, 2008
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE SCANLAN: What can I say? Talk about your day. You got yourself into that playoff with a putt on 18. Made it two holes, weren't able to come out with the victory, but probably a great experience for you. 
 CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, it's been a very good experience for me this week. I haven't played this well for a long time. And it's been solid four days, I would say, or three and a half at least. 
 I mean, all day I was focused. I was happy that I got myself to the playoffs. I didn't even know how big that putt was on 18. I guess -- it was fun. It was fun in the playoffs with Lorena and Cristie. I'd just love to be in this position more often. 

 Q. The putt you had on the second playoff hole was a lot like the one that Cristie had on the first. Was that kind of going through your mind what you saw on the first hole or were you in your own zone? 
 CANDIE KUNG: I was in my own way. I was actually slow up the hill. Actually, I putted during the practice round and just any of the greens that I had an uphill putt, it's going to be very slow. But on one hole today it didn't -- I hit it solid all week. I didn't really have an opportunity to putt anything that's going that severe slope. So that kind of got me there. 
 I didn't want to say this, but if I would have hit it off line more this week, then I would have a chance to set that kind of putt and know the speed. 

 Q. Can you tell us what club and the distance on your two playoff holes? Do you remember? 
 CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I had a little pitching wedge on the first one. No, actually a 9 on the first one, and then a little pitching wedge on the second one.

 Q. How far would you say the putts were? 
 CANDIE KUNG: The putts or the shots? 

 Q. The putts. 
 CANDIE KUNG: Oh, the first one I was just on the right side I would say like 18 feet. Then the second one, I would say about 30 feet. 

 Q. At the end of the regular round, the birdie on 18 that putt, what did you read there when you rolled past the hole and coming back?
 CANDIE KUNG: On the regulation? For some reason when I was walking up on that putt, I was feeling that this one was going to go in because I see the line perfect. There's no extra distractions on the side. I just see a perfect, clear line. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: That's always a good thing. Candie, thank you for coming in. 
 CANDIE KUNG: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT