EVIAN MASTERS
July 26, 2008
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Candie, a great round. You had the low round today at 5-under. This is one of the first time's you've been in contention going into the final rounds since your three wins in 2003. What part of your game do you feel is coming back?   
 CANDIE KUNG: I think it's mainly just putting for me this year so far. I've been hitting the ball great; just putting's been struggling.   
 But for some reason the previous six years that I've been here the green's been freaky to me. But, like I said for some reason this week's been putting pretty good for me.  
 THE MODERATOR: That's great. Do we have questions for Candie?  
  
  Q. People have been talking about the greens being softer this the week than in past years. Has this helped, or do you agree?  
 CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I think the greens are holding pretty good. We hit wedges into the green, they're holding it great. I mean, I can just play at the flag pretty much firing at the flag on every hole. Even with the 6, 7-irons they're still holding pretty good. I think that helps a little too.  
  
  Q. Is it true that you learned how to play in the states not in Korea?  
 CANDIE KUNG: First of all, I'm not from Korea. I'm from Taiwan.   
 Yes, I didn't play golf when I was in Taiwan. I picked up golf when I was -- we moved to the U.S.  
 THE MODERATOR: When was that?   
 CANDIE KUNG: That was back in 1995.  
  
  Q. Are you a U.S. citizen as well?   
 CANDIE KUNG: Yes I am.  
  
  Q. How long have you been a U.S. citizen?  
 CANDIE KUNG: I would say about three, four years.  
  
  Q. Does that mean you have a dual nationality, dual citizenship? You have two citizenships?  
 CANDIE KUNG: No. I only have U.S. passport.  
  
  Q. It's been awhile, a few years since your last win. It looks like you'll be in had the final pairing tomorrow. Have you been in contention in the third round have you been in these positions and what happened then?  
 CANDIE KUNG: Yeah I had a few times the last few years being in the last two or three groups. But this will be probably the first time being in the last group from what I remember.   
 It's going to be fun. Whoever's going to be paired with me tomorrow we're going to have a lot of good times out there and hopefully the rain will stop by tomorrow.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 CANDIE KUNG: I'm in Allen, Texas, that's 30 minutes north of downtown.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. Candie, great round today. Good luck this weekend.   
 CANDIE KUNG: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT