U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2004
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You've got to be feeling pretty good about your round?
CANDIE KUNG:  Yeah, I'm feeling good.  Everything has been going well the last couple days for me.  I'm looking forward to the next two days.
Q.  What's it like having a Southern California tournament out there since the top 3 right now are all from Southern California?
CANDIE KUNG:  I haven't even the leaderboard yet so I don't know.
Q.  Jennifer, Kim, you.
CANDIE KUNG:  Yeah, that's good.  Very good.
Q.  At what point did you know or were you aware that you were making a run and you were starting to rise up the leaderboard did you watch?
CANDIE KUNG:  I didn't pay any attention to the leaderboard at all.  I just go out there and play my own game.  Stick to our game plan for the day.  See what happens.
Q.  What's the game plan?
CANDIE KUNG:  Fairways and greens.
Q.  Can you talk about the green that you missed and the chip in at 15?
CANDIE KUNG:  15, that was just a little 8 iron.  And caught it a little thin.  But we have been working on my chipping a lot the last few weeks, well it's pretty much the whole season and I'm feeling pretty comfortable with it, chipping on    first holing, chipping in at 15.  I just feel comfortable over that ball.
Q.  I guess you were chipping on 1.  Which side of the green were you on there?
CANDIE KUNG:  On the right.  It's about the same.
Q.  Same distance?
CANDIE KUNG:  Yeah, about the same.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CANDIE KUNG:  Yeah.
Q.  You made the turn at even par.  That's fine, you don't need to press on the back nine, the birdies just tumbled and came your way?
CANDIE KUNG:  Yup.  Yup.  It just happened to go in on back nine.  All the putts.  Not all of them, but a few of them went in.
Q.  Did you get more aggressive?
CANDIE KUNG:  No.  We tried to stay below the hole on every hole and didn't really do that on a couple holes, but I was able to get up and down and that was pretty good.  I was happy with that.  And on the uphill putts, I was just trying to 2 putt on every green and get the par and we're out of there.
Q.  Were you especially happy getting up and down on 18.  Two putting from where you were on 18, thinking "That's great"?
CANDIE KUNG:  18, yeah, that was a little 9 wood for my second shot and it ended up there, we were a little surprised with that one.  That was a great 2 putt from there.  Very happy with that one.
Q.  Have you ever been this close to the top going into the third round of any Major before?
CANDIE KUNG:  Nope.  First time.  First time.
Q.  How does it feel?
CANDIE KUNG:  Same as usual.  Try to be same as usual.
Q.  Are you surprised, given the rain we had yesterday and the relative softness of the course, that only 5 under is leading?
CANDIE KUNG:  The course is playing a little different today than yesterday.  We were playing everything to bounce up there yesterday.  And today we were actually pretty, we were a little more aggressive for the second shot.  We just tried to stay below the hole.  I don't mind being short of the green, just try to stay below the hole on every hole.
Q.  What was it like the two days playing with Michelle in front of a huge gallery ?
CANDIE KUNG:  It's fun.  A lot of fun.  I don't think I've ever had that many people following our group.  It was a lot of fun.
Q.  When you saw that pairing, was that good or bad or indifferent, knowing that there was probably going to be a lot of photographers and a lot of movement.  Were you thinking like this is like the last thing I need or were you looking forward to it?
CANDIE KUNG:  I just have to be patient out there because I know the crowd is going to be a little hard to control.  And I just leave it all to my caddy.  I think he's going to do a good job and he did that the last couple days and it was good.  I just tried to stay patient, let the gallery move around until they stopped before I swing the club.
Q.  If you had your choice, would you like to play the first two rounds of any tournament with Michelle or Annika where you're going to get big galleries and a lot of movement or more in anonymity a little bit?
CANDIE KUNG:  I really don't care about it for the first two rounds.
Q.  Pick one or the other?

CANDIE KING:  One or the other?  Can I take both?
Q.  You didn't notice that Jennifer and Kim were up there, leaderboards aren't even on your radar?
CANDIE KUNG:  No, I kind of know    yeah, I kind of know where they are and just not look that way.
Q.  That's always the way you are or just for a Major?
CANDIE KUNG:  Yeah.
Q.  Even on Sunday?
CANDIE KUNG:  We'll see.  We'll see.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT