U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2004
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RHONDA GLENN:  Ladies and gentlemen, Candie Kung shot a 3-under par 68 today and she is at 4-under par for the championship.

You started a lot better on the first hole than you did yesterday.  You went from having a double bogey on No. 1 to a chip in, tell us about it.
 CANDIE KUNG:  I had a 6-iron to the green, it was a mis- hit, it went to the right and I just happened to chip it in.
RHONDA GLENN:  And a bogey on the second hole, what happened there.
 CANDIE KUNG:  I hit a great shot there, and it just happened to -- that ball just bounced over the green, and it was a pretty difficult chip shot.  And I had about five feet for par, left it a little short.
RHONDA GLENN:  And then a consistent round, except that you had three birdies on the back nine, No. 10.
 CANDIE KUNG:  10, I had a 7-iron, from about 150 something, I don't remember, but had 7-iron to about 15 feet, and that was probably the first one that I got it to the hole with a putt.  All the putts I had before that were uphill and I left it short of the hole.
RHONDA GLENN:  No. 13 you birdied for the second day in a row.
 CANDIE KUNG:  13 is a par-5, I drove it into the rough, and just tried to hit like a punch 9-wood out of there to short of the green, and I've been pretty good with my wedges the last couple of weeks.  I was very comfortable with it.  I chipped it up to about two feet.
RHONDA GLENN:  15 you birdied, and this was another chip in.
 CANDIE KUNG:  Chip in, I had 8-iron to the green, happened to miss that one again, slider to the right and ended up short of the green, about the same angle as I had on the first hole, from right front of the green, chipped it up to the pin.  Those two were about 25 feet, happened to chip it in again.
RHONDA GLENN:  In your very successful career with the wins, have you ever chipped in twice in one round?
CANDIE KUNG:  No, no.
RHONDA GLENN:  Never.
 CANDIE KUNG:  No, I don't think so.  I've been working on my chipping the last -- since the start of the season, and it's looking pretty good.
Q.  I think today you were a rarity among everyone else, at 16?
 CANDIE KUNG:  I had a pretty good driver off the tee, in and out of the first cut.  Into the wind trying to figure out was it a 5-wood or 7-wood.  And I ended up hitting a 5-wood.  It was on the back of the green, another pretty tough putt coming down.  It was big time right-to-left.  It was quick, too.  I had about 10 feet coming back left-to-right for my par and I made that one.
Q.  Does it feel like a birdie on that hole?
 CANDIE KUNG:  Yeah, I was just going to walk out of there a par, any day, and I'll take it.
Q.  I was wondering what your frame of mind was coming out this week, and what your expectations are there weekend?
 CANDIE KUNG:  I was struggling two weeks ago, I mean before two weeks ago, I was struggling with my swing, and we got it figured out just I think it was ShopRite, two weeks ago, got it figured out and now I'm pretty comfortable with my swing right now, feeling pretty good, just struggled during the year, no big deal.  We still have half of a season to go.
Q.  Was there a lot of pressure, self-imposed pressure to match up what you did last year, is that part of what played into it, and what is sort of the Reader's Digest version of what you found with your swing?
 CANDIE KUNG:  There's pressure I put on myself, I wanted to do better than last year.  This year I haven't done anything yet.  But my coach, everyone's been telling me, after a good year, you're going to have a so-so year, it's hard to keep up with what you've done last year.  And just trying to be patient.  I have a long career ahead of me.  This is just another year, another tournament, things can turn around sometime.
RHONDA GLENN:  What were those swing changes that you made?
 CANDIE KUNG:  I was getting too technical with my swing, that's about it.  My swing was breaking up into little pieces.  We can tell from the video.  It was breaking up.  We compare it to my swing five years ago, it was really, really smooth.  It wasn't good, but it was really smooth, I was able to get the ball in play.  It was breaking up early in the season and luckily we found that two weeks ago.  Now I'm starting to hit it back to normal, fairways and greens.
Q.  Do you realize three USC gals are at the top, and do you know the other two at all?
 CANDIE KUNG:  I didn't play with them when I was in school, Jennifer left when I got there, and Kim was a little earlier.
Q.  I wonder if you have known them?
 CANDIE KUNG:  A little bit.  I played with Kim last week.  I played with her the first two rounds, I think, or the third round -- third round I played with her.
Q.  Any thoughts about three Trojans at the top of the leaderboard?
 CANDIE KUNG:  It's good.  Good to see that.  The coach is going to be happy.
RHONDA GLENN:  Good playing.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT