WACHOVIA LPGA CLASSIC
August 24, 2003
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CANDIE KUNG: I don't know what happened there.  Wrong club, bad shot.  Couldn't get it up and down.  I have no idea what happened there.  But those birdies on 8, 9 and 10 really got me going.  I knew I was still in contention after birdie on 10 and pretty much just hang in there play my way out to 18. 


Q.   You said yesterday that you didn't watch the leaderboard.  Were you following the action yesterday?

CANDIE KUNG: Not at all.  I have no idea at all.  I didn't even know how many shots I won by.  After I signed the score card I didn't even know.  I asked my caddie afterwards before I walk out to the award presentation and he told me two shots.  I had no idea how many shots I was up by.


Q.   You had said yesterday you felt the second win would be harder than the first win.  After the 7th hole today did that thought like cross your mind, saying man, this is really tough?

CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, but I didn't give up though.  It was hard.  But after that first win I told myself I still have a chance.  There's still, what, 12 holes to go.  Anything can happen on those 12 holes.  I might birdie all the way in, never know. 


Q.   What did you say to your caddie on 18?

CANDIE KUNG: I think it was something like did I win?  (Laughs). 


Q.   Pretty impressive names up there.  Meg, Se Ri Pak.  (Inaudible)     

CANDIE KUNG: I knew they were behind me pretty close.  I knew one of them is going to get out there and shoot low.  But I was just playing my own game and if I can finish 18 holes leading Meg I would have a good chance of winning the tournament. 


Q.   Go over your card, please.

CANDIE KUNG: I had 163 to the hole.  It was uphill.  Wind was crosswind.  Hit a 5 iron, I don't know how that one went over the green.  That was a pretty big one.  I hit a poor chip shot there.  That was my bogey.

3, I have been hitting it right the last three days, and I just wanted to hit that green today so bad.  I pulled that one.  That was actually a pretty food shot.  Straight at the pin.  Pulled that one, in the bunker, couldn't get up and down from there.  I hit a 4 iron: 

4, I had 111 to the pin.  That was just an easy easy pitching wedge.  (Inaudible) barely on the green.  Rolled it to about four feet.

6, another par 3.  I had 175 to the pin.  Wind was crossed.  Should have been an easy perfect 5 iron shot, pulled that one left; couldn't get up and down from there. 

I had 75 yards, we had trouble with that hole  pretty much all four days.  Couldn't figure out the right yardage where I was.  I was 75, but it didn't look like 75.  Hit a lob wedge, I think just flew the green.

8, I had 117 to the pin.  That was an easy, easy pitching wedge again.  Hit it perfect to about four feet, or five feet.

9, 119 to the pin.  I was into the wind.  Hit an easy 9 iron and it landed just about 15 feet past the hole.

10, I had 115 to the hole, that was just an easy pitching wedge.  Got it up there to about twelve feet, I would say.

13, 3 wood off the tee all four days; pretty much same yardage all four days too.  3 wood second shot, then I had 81 yards to the pin.  Again that one doesn't look like 81 yards at all to me.  We were going to hit probably 75 yards and still fly the pin, but I made that putt coming down.  That was about 15 feet from the hole.

18.  That's a good one.  Hit a huge drive.  I had 179 to the pin.  That was downwind, we were going to play 165 just to land it in front of the green.  I was going to hit 6 iron.  My caddie pulled me off there, told me to hit 7 iron instead.  Just to make sure that we were short of the green, have an easier chip shot to the pin.  Chipped it up     I hit a 7 iron, that one about 20 yards short of the pin, chipped it up to about two feet. 


Q.   How long were your par 5s on 14 and 17?

CANDIE KUNG: 14, that one was about six feet up the hill. 


Q.   17?

CANDIE KUNG: That one was about four feet. 


Q.   Meg Mallon said the putt on    the par putt on 17 was the putt of the tournament.  Would you comment on that?

CANDIE KUNG: I didn't know what was going on with the leaderboard and everything, but I thought that was pretty important to me, that putt right there.  I told myself I have been practicing this all week and just another one that I have been practicing on the practice greens. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT