WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 9, 2003
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  All right, Candie, thanks for joining us.  It was another terrific round out there to.  11 under, and right now you have a two stroke lead on the players still out on the course.  Maybe you can tell us how you're feeling and we'll take some questions.

CANDIE KUNG: It was a little shaky today.  I feel pretty good.  I was able to hang in there and try to make putts and see what happens.

MODERATOR:  Questions?


Q.  The conditions of the course, did they change at all from yesterday to today?

CANDIE KUNG: It's about the same.  I think it's still a little wet out there.  Greens are still holding the ball pretty well.  I think it's playing about the same.


Q.  You said you were a little shaky today.  I think after the 10th or 11th hole, you were 11 under par.  It looked like you were in position to put a lot of room between you and the rest of the field.  Did anything happen on the Back  9 that you really couldn't get any farther under par?

CANDIE KUNG: I couldn't hit the ball close today.  I was still able to get it inside 15 feet, but not close enough for birdies, and in the afternoon, the greens got some spike marks on it.  I couldn't control it, but I was able to hit a couple close, close ones, like three feet from the hole.  Those were birdie putts.  I'm still hitting the ball okay.  If I go out there and play the way I played today, I'll probably still be okay, but I need to hit it a lot closer and make more putts tomorrow.


Q.  With not being able to do a whole lot, coming in, you get the birdie on the last hole, how does that make you feel?

CANDIE KUNG: It's great to birdie the last hole, and we'll see what happens tomorrow.


Q.  Are there any names on the board that you look at, the defending champion just birdie again, and you think, oh, boy, that's not somebody I want to get in a match with?  Is there anybody that intimidates you?

CANDIE KUNG: I really didn't look at the scoreboard at all.  I don't know who was up there and who's not.  I go up there and play my own game.


Q.  Also, having had the win earlier this year, do you feel any differently going into the final round tomorrow with the lead than you might have had you not had a win under your belt already?

CANDIE KUNG: I always wanted to win on tour, and it happened to me earlier this season, and it was great.  Now, I know I have the ability to win on tour, and tomorrow I have a little more experience than last time.  Hopefully, I'll be able to hold on to it and gain more shots tomorrow.


Q.  What do you remember about that final round, what was that like?  Did you have golfers chasing you?  Just fill us in on those details.

CANDIE KUNG: I didn't look at the leaderboard at all that last round, and I think I'm going to go out there and do the same thing this time, hit fairways, greens and make putts.


Q.  How would you say your confidence level is right now going into tomorrow's round?  Do you feel confident going into tomorrow's round?

CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I'm still feeling pretty comfortable with my game.


Q.  I guess what I'm getting at with the earlier question, you weren't paying attention to the leaderboard in Las Vegas and you had Sorenstam to deal with, but not here.  Does that make any difference?

CANDIE KUNG: No, everyone out here can shoot well on this golf course.  Anything can happen tomorrow.


Q.  Does it mean anything extra to you that you held off Sorenstam and some other really good players in Las Vegas?

CANDIE KUNG: I didn't really pay attention to it.  I didn't really know she was playing that week.  I didn't know until I was finished.


Q.  Have you always been like this as far as ignoring everything around you and zoning into your own game?

CANDIE KUNG: Yes, yes.  I try.


Q.  Yesterday you hit close a lot, and we haven't gone over your card yet, but you said at one point you hit a lot of shots and got to 15 feet, but they weren't necessarily so close you could kick them in.  Did you have a lot of birdie opportunities?

CANDIE KUNG: Yes.  I still hit 14 greens today, and I had 11 of them inside 15 feet.


Q.  11 inside 15 feet?

CANDIE KUNG: Yes.


Q.  Is that at all frustrating, because 15 feet, that appears to be makable for a lot of people?

CANDIE KUNG: Some of them it was because of the greens, and some of them because I didn't hit it hard enough.  I couldn't hold the line.  It was one of those days.

MODERATOR:  You want to go over your score card.


Q.  Just one more to follow-up on your last answer.  You said yesterday one of the things you worked on was to get through the ball and get it there.  Do you have enough time to go back now tonight and work on that?

CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.  I'm going to go putt for a little bit.

MODERATOR:  You want to go over your card. 

(Score card done.)


Q.  Do you have goals in terms of what you would like to do out here, multiple wins?  Obviously you've won one.  Are you hungry for more?

CANDIE KUNG: Yes, I'm looking for that second one to come.

MODERATOR:  Any more questions? 


Q.  We had a question earlier today, your bio in the media guide says you live in California, went to Southern Cal.  You were born in Taiwan.  I wonder when you moved to this country?

CANDIE KUNG:  '95.


Q.  What would say is keeping you from that next step where you're contending every week or piling up multiple wins?

CANDIE KUNG: I think I'm still young, and this is only not even my tenth year playing golf, and I think I just need to keep improving, get more experience and that should help.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Thank you.

CANDIE KUNG: Thank you.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT