WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 8, 2003
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: 34, 30 great birthday gift.  Any more holes out there I am sure you would be birdieing them.  Tell us about your round and then we'll take some questions.

CANDIE KUNG: I started off pretty shaky with my driving.  I was blocking everything to the right but I was  -- fairways were pretty wide so I was able to keep it in the fairway and keep the ball in play.  Iron shots I was hitting pretty good all day.  Starting on the front nine I left a couple of putts short for birdie.  I was just like, okay, just hang in there, it's going to come.  Just played my way through all 18.

MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.   Have you played well before on your birthday?

CANDIE KUNG: Yes, last year I shot 65.  That's one shot better this year.  See what is going to happen next year then.  (Laughs). 


Q.   65 last year put you (inaudible) --

CANDIE KUNG: Leader.  It was by one. 


Q.   Was there a particular point in the round where you just kind of fell into a groove?  You said you weren't hitting birdie putts on the front side but suddenly you hit five on the  --

CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I just told myself just get it to the hole because I have been playing pretty good the last couple of days.  My coach came out and we did a couple of things and I felt pretty good on my putting.  I told myself just trust it and hit it, get there, get it to the hole.  That's all I have to do. 


Q.   Were you aware that Moira was directly behind you, she was posting a lot of birdies too.  Do you look at the leaderboard?

CANDIE KUNG: No.  No.  I knew someone had a 6-under in the morning pairings.  But that's all I know.  I don't look at the leaderboard at all.  I didn't know if there was anyone at 7 or whatever.  Just went out there and played my round. 


Q.   (Inaudible) Did the course play tougher as the day went on?

CANDIE KUNG: I think I played the same.  I don't know about this morning but I feel like it is playing pretty much the same as yesterday.  The course conditions played a little better than yesterday, a little drier, and we're playing lift, clean and place, so that makes it a little easier. 


Q.   In Vegas on Sunday you said you were counting hotel rooms in the hotel across the street to keep your mind off of golf.  So when you put together a string of birdies like that, did you have to do anything similar today or is it old hat now?

CANDIE KUNG: I think I had about 22 bottles of water today, more than that, more than one for each hole and I stopped at every single one of the toilets out there. 

I think I broke everything too, the first four.  Two of them weren't flushing -- no, three of them weren't flushing; one, the door locked, it was off. 

MODERATOR:  Go over your score card.

First birdie on 4.

CANDIE KUNG: Yes.  4 is a par 5.  I had 255 to the hole.  I hit a 3-wood and came out about 40 yards short of the hole; hit a chip shot up there to about three feet   -- no, closer, two feet. 

Then No. 9 was the par 5, I hit 190 for my second shot to the hole.  I hit a perfect 4-iron.  It landed over the bunker, to about 15 feet, missed my eagle putt.

No. 12, I had 153 to the hole.  I hit 7-iron up there to about three feet.

14 is the par 5, I had about 90 yards, I just hit a little gap-wedge up there to about twelve feet, left-to-right downhill, knocked that one in.

15, the par 3, I had 173 to the hole, a little downwind, I hit a good 5-iron, that was perfect.   It  went about three feet past the hole. 

And, 16, I hit a huge drive there.  I was right next to the  100-yard plate.  I had a 97 to the hole, hit a gap-wedge and came up three feet short of the hole.

17, I was 135 to the hole.  I hit a 9-iron.  That one came up about twelve feet short of the hole, and 18, I had 135 to the hole.  I hit a 9-iron.  That one went about ten feet past the hole, left-to-right. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

CANDIE KUNG: I have been hitting the ball very well the last few weeks.  The last few weeks pretty much my putting I couldn't make a single putt, but, yeah, I am still hitting the ball well this week and, hopefully I will keep it the same way.  Hopefully I can hit it the same the next two days and hopefully putting stays the same too.  We'll see what happens over there.


Q.   Last three tournaments you were in the Top 11 or so, so I mean obviously you kind of felt this coming on, you have been playing fairly well for a little while?

CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, I have been hitting the ball well the last three weeks and as I said, just pretty much my putting and now this week  -- Tuesday my  -- no, Wednesday my coach came over and we did some things on my putting.  Now I am feeling pretty comfortable on my putting, on the short putts. 


Q.   What did your coach work with you on your putting?

CANDIE KUNG: I was taking it back on the backstroke and pushing it out a little and now we're just getting it back on track   - straight back, straight through, on the short putts. 


Q.   The course conditions, were those conducive for scoring?  I would have thought the greens were pretty receptive.

CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.  Pretty much you can spin the ball from -- if you have an iron shot, even with a fairway wood, I think you can spin the ball pretty well on the green.  So today I just pretty much got out there and take it straight at it, I didn't take off any yardage; didn't try and let it bounce up there or anything, just get it up there to the hole.


Q.   How will you celebrate your birthday?

CANDIE KUNG: I don't know.  (Laughs).  I am gong to go out there and practice a little bit.


Q.   No plans, no dinner?

CANDIE KUNG:  Don't know yet. 


Q.   Do you have family with you?

CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, my whole family is here.

I have an older brother, right there. 


Q.   Is there a momentum to birdie the last five, do you carry that into tomorrow?

CANDIE KUNG: Tomorrow is another day after a night of sleep, everything is going to be new tomorrow.  Hopefully my swing will stay the same.  Everything will stay the same. 

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.

CANDIE KUNG: Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT