OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Could you have asked for a better start? Just take me through the day.   
CANDIE KUNG: I started the day awesome, three birdies on the first three holes and then just kind of kept it going. Pretty level, fairways, greens, 2‑putt, and I got another one on 9, which I hit it really close, a little tap‑in. Overall, it's just a pretty average day I think.   
   
 Q. How do you prepare coming into this week?  
CANDIE KUNG: I had two weeks off, so I chilled for a week and got back to practice for a couple days last week. I actually went to Vegas for a wedding before I came here. So I didn't get here till Monday afternoon. When I got to the course, it was blowing, whatever it was, and I was just like, screw it, I'm going home. I couldn't even walk it. It was blowing so hard. It was blowing really hard, so I was like, just change pins.   
   
 Q. So instead of practice, you're like, I'm going to go get pins?  
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.  
   
 Q. So you did prepare getting pins?  
CANDIE KUNG: No, actually I forgot to bring mine. When I got to my room, I was in a rush and I forgot to bring the pins, so I had to borrow people's. I was doing pins here first, and then I got back that night, got back to eat, and we actually walked by a couple of people and they asked for pins.   
   
 Q. You're staying in the village? How's that?   
CANDIE KUNG: It's cool. It's like a college campus.   
   
 Q. What you expected or different?  
CANDIE KUNG: Different. I was expecting it to be more spread out. It's all there. Everybody is walking by each other. It was cool. It's like a dorm, dining, everybody is there. You're like, what country is that.   
   
 Q. This summer, second time representing Chinese Taipei, how cool is that, just being able to represent twice in such a short period of time?   
CANDIE KUNG: I love representing countries, especially my own country. There's just that different feeling when you stand up there and you put the shirt on with the logo. It's just a completely different feeling. I don't know why.   
   
 Q. And the Taiwanese media, to see how big this is‑‑  
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, they will come out to the majors here and there. But to see them here, that's awesome, because I didn't expect them to be here.   
   
 Q. Did you watch the guys?   
CANDIE KUNG: No time. I was busy. I was busy. I had it recorded but I didn't have a chance to watch it.   
   
 Q. Whose wedding was it?  
CANDIE KUNG: One of my best friends from high school. She planned it around me. She thought I had three weeks off. She forgot there's the Olympics. I looked at it, I was like, it's the Olympics. She said, oh, yeah, that's right.   
   
 Q. What would playing well, possibly a medal, what would that do for your season, your career? Is that even on your radar or do you don't want to think about it?  
CANDIE KUNG: I know there's a number I want to get to. I'm thinking 18 is going to win. So whoever gets to 18 first, I say you can get a medal around there.   
   
 Q. What's the biggest challenge of the course?   
CANDIE KUNG: It's tough. It's tough. Driving, second shot, and if the wind starts blowing, yeah.   
   
 Q. Did you and Teresa converse much on the course?   
CANDIE KUNG: Not much. Like I said, I only played one round, yesterday. I was pretty much in a zone of trying to figure out what the course looks like and stuff. So I didn't really ask her how she's playing and stuff.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT