WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2002
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LAURA NEAL:  Why don't you start with some comments on how your round went today.
CANDIE KUNG: Everything started off pretty good, birdied the second, eagled the third, everything was in control and then the wind started picking up on, I don't know, probably like our 6th hole or something.  And all of a sudden it got really cold and I just lost control of my drives.  But I was able to keep myself in there because I am pretty much 3-under for the round and I hung in there, and yeah, I just pretty much kept myself in there.  And my driver was going everywhere and then I started to warm up probably around 14th hole and started to get the feel back. 
LAURA NEAL:  You feel like you finished the round with a good telling.
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah. 

Q.  Do you feel angry with yourself about missing that putt on 18?
CANDIE KUNG: Actually 17 and 18 both of them, I mean, 17 I got it up there really close.  That first putt just got me.  I didn't hit it hard enough.  I didn't know that hill was going to take that much.  My second putt I thought I hit a good putt, but it just broke.  And on the last one, I didn't  -- I was just going to putt it from the fringe but it is going to be a tough one because it is going to be hard to control the distance, the pace and unfortunately I hit it a little too hard and I missed the one coming back.  I left two shots out there today.  But it's all right. 

Q.  So do you think you should have used a different club?
CANDIE KUNG: I would still putt it because it is kind of downhill and if I would have used another club I would probably pull out my 5-wood and just like touch it a little, it will run, but I didn't practice that at all this week out here, so I wouldn't risk that. 

Q.  Would you say you struggled with the wind?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, like probably for six holes I would think, from 6 to 12, I would  -- I mean, I couldn't even write, like my hands were shaking when I was writing on the yardage book.  It was horrible.  (Laughs).

Q. This is a gentle day in Scotland!
CANDIE KUNG: It is going to be worse tomorrow, right? 

Q.  Did you celebrate your birthday last night?
CANDIE KUNG: Last night, no.  I didn't do anything.  But I got flowers on my bed when I went back to the hotel.  So that was nice. 

Q.  What were the worst conditions you've played in before this?
CANDIE KUNG: Probably Hawaii earlier in the year, the wind was blowing pretty strong.  It was just wind. 

Q.  How long were the putts on 17 and 18?
CANDIE KUNG: Not far.  Probably four feet.  If you want to win a tournament that's like 100%, you have got to make all of them. 
LAURA NEAL:  Tell us what happened with the kid.
CANDIE KUNG: That the ball hit?
LAURA NEAL:  Yes.
CANDIE KUNG: That was in between, that was No. 9  -- it was 10.  On those holes the wind was blowing left-to-right.  There was ocean on the left, so I was actually like afraid of pulling my drive into those things on the left.  So I -- actually on those holes, I pushed my drive way right and on that one just got --
LAURA NEAL:  On the fly?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, on the fly.  I felt so bad. 

Q.  Where did it hit him?
CANDIE KUNG: I think finger, right?  He was holding it over here and his dad was holding it over here, and Pat's caddie thought I hit his head, but I thought I hit his arm and then the hole after, someone told us that it was the finger.  So that's good. 

Q.  You gave him a ball?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, both Pat and I gave him the ball. 

Q.  How do you feel about your position going into the weekend?
CANDIE KUNG: It's good.  I make the cut in a major tournament my first year.  It will be fun tomorrow.  I can't wait to see what the weather is going to be like tomorrow. 
LAURA NEAL:  Have you been thinking about trying to win Rookie-of-the-Year or are you just playing and seeing what happens?
CANDIE KUNG: I'm way too far back right now.  The way I started earlier in the year, I don't think there's any chance at all to catch up.
LAURA NEAL: If you win, it's 300 points.
CANDIE KUNG: If I win?  But Beth is up there too so  just let it go, see what happens. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT