WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2002
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LAURA NEAL:  Thanks for joining us.  This is her first time in the media center, and it's her 21st birthday today. 
Awesome round.  What was going right for you out there.
CANDIE KUNG:   I was hitting the ball well the last couple of weeks, and coming into this week, just pretty much tried to do the same thing as did I tell last couple of weeks.  Today my putts were going in and that was about it.  Putts were going in, really makes a difference.

Q.  Have you ever led a tournament before?
CANDIE KUNG:   I think I did.  It was two years ago, the World Amateur in Germany.  I think it was pretty much about the same. 

Q.  Talk about your interests other than golf?
CANDIE KUNG:   I'm still trying to find one.  You guys have got to help me with that.  (Laughter.)

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CANDIE KUNG:   I started in '95 and that's pretty much my life from there on. 

Q.  How did you get started? 
CANDIE KUNG:   Well, we moved to the States in '95, and I got nothing to do at that time, and that's how I got started. 

Q.  Where did you move to?
CANDIE KUNG:   California. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CANDIE KUNG:   Well, his name is Sensun, that's his Chinese name. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CANDIE KUNG:   No.  It was because of my brother.  He was here for school and we had to move over here just because of him. 
He just wanted to come over here for high school and college.  Now he's done with school.  He caddied for me earlier in the year. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CANDIE KUNG:   I don't know, is there anymore fun around here?  (Laughter.)

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CANDIE KUNG:   Today, not yet.  I don't know if there's something in the locker or whatever.  I got here early this morning.  I got here at 6:00.  I don't know if I'm going to get anything in the locker. 
18 because pretty big.  21, yeah, kind of. 

Q.  Did you have a big party when you were 18? 
CANDIE KUNG:   No.  Golf.  (Laughs).  Golf. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CANDIE KUNG:   I don't know.  Just by accident probably. 
Yes, it was close.  Probably a couple of miles.  We still lived in California, but we moved, though.  We moved up to east of L.A.. 

Q.  What's your brother doing?
CANDIE KUNG:   He's on vacation right now this year and he'll probably go back to work next year or school, not sure yet. 
LAURA NEAL:  Let's do your score card. 
No bogeys. 
CANDIE KUNG:   No bogeys.  I birdied the first hole.  I had 130 to the pin.  I hit 8-iron, pulled it a little bit and had about ten yards  -- I do paces, and it was about ten paces.  Made birdie there.
Second hole, I had 153 to the pin, I hit 6-iron.  That one was pretty close.  I had it down inside 15 feet. 
Then I missed my birdie putt on No. 3.  I got it up there probably just about 15 yards short of the front, chipped it up to about five feet, missed the putt. 
The other par 5, it was about the same thing.  Chipped it up there close and missed the putt again. 
Then the back nine, on No. 10, I had 170 to the pin.  I hit 6-iron.  That one just about a foot from the hole. 
14, at the par  5, I got there in two with my 3-wood.  It was about ten paces, too.  2-putted there. 
15, par 3, I hit a 6-iron and it kicked off the hill from the left to about three feet, made the putt.  That was a left-to-right putt. 
17, I hit my 3-wood and I had about 243 to the pin.  Hit 3-wood about ten short of the front and chipped it up there, I would say about five feet, coming down, right-to-left.  That was a hard putt.  Made that one. 
Then last hole, I had 109 to the pin, which is an easing pitching wedge.  It was straight at the pin.  That one, probably six feet.  Made that one.

Q.  How do you other people see you?
CANDIE KUNG:   I don't know about how other people think about me, but I think I am  -- what's the word for it  -- I don't know the word for it.  I just try to be nice to the others, treat people the way I wanted to be treated, and that's kind of who I am. 
I'm pretty serious on the golf course.  If I talk to  -- if it's one shot, I'm going to be totally out for that hole, so I try to be concentrated out there. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CANDIE KUNG:   Yes and no.  I'm pretty negative.  That's all I can say.  My friends are like:  You've got to be positive.  I'm pretty negative out there.

Q.  How are you negative?
CANDIE KUNG:   Anything out there, if I have 150 yards to the pin, I was down on myself, like I don't think I can get there with six.  Or for a short putt, I would say, "No, I don't think I can make this one."  And they are like:  "You've got to think positive.  You've got to be able to make this one."  And I'm learning.  Still learning.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT