SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 21, 2016
Candie Kung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Quite a round, starting with two bogeys and then going nuts, right?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, yeah.
Q. What did you think after the first two holes?
CANDIE KUNG: Two 3-putts, hello, what a start, and can't possibly be 3-putting every single hole, right?  Okay that's a positive thought.
Q. And now here you are in great shape.
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.
Q. What got you going?
CANDIE KUNG: Putting.  Let me down the first two holes and then picked me right up on the last 16 holes.  I made a lot of long putts and hit 18 greens today, which helped.  This course is hard to hit fairways and greens, and I was able to keep it in play and hit all the greens.
Q. Took last week off.  What did you do between tournaments?
CANDIE KUNG: I slept.  I had five days of 12-hour sleeps the last five days.
Q. In order to recover?
CANDIE KUNG: Yes.
Q. Mentally or physically?
CANDIE KUNG: Both.  I know I need it.  I've been playing good, and in Palm Springs I knew something was wrong.  I had nothing in my body and I knew I needed time off.  That's what I did, I took two weeks off and here I am.
I'm feeling a lot better physically and mentally.
Q. Has that happened before?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah, for sure.  For sure.  The longer I play, I know how my body is and I know to take time off.
Q. Last time did you respond with a round like this right after?
CANDIE KUNG: No, no.
Q. Okay.
CANDIE KUNG: Usually I don't come back too strong, yeah.
Q. Very impressive round, especially in the afternoon with the wind whipping up.  How was that for you?
CANDIE KUNG: I knew playing in the afternoon it was going to be hard, because I saw the wind was going to be blowing about 12, 13 in the afternoon.
Luckily it was blowing one direction instead of everywhere, so that one direction helped because we know where it's coming from.  With all the trees blocking the wind, we know where it's coming from.  That helps a lot.
Q. Because of this tournament's connection with Taiwan, how meaningful is it to be on the leaderboard here?
CANDIE KUNG: It's kind of cool.  We see all the Taiwanese people out here.  See a lot of young girls playing in this tournament.
It's cool that I'm up there.  There is a lot of pressure to it for sure, but I've been out here long enough.  I'm going to go out there and play golf and enjoy myself out there.
Whatever happens, happens.
Q. Do you have any connection with Swinging Skirts?  They just do so much for the young...
CANDIE KUNG: They do.  They do.  I hear a lot about it.  But me personally, I don't have any connection with them.
Q. Give us a quick summary again.  You were born there, right?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.
Q. How much family do you have there still?
CANDIE KUNG: All -- my whole -- everybody is back there.  Only my parents are here traveling with me, but most of the time they're back in Taiwan.
Q. And how old were you when you came over here?
CANDIE KUNG: I started high school here, so about 14.
Q. Where was that?
CANDIE KUNG: Orange County, California.
Q. Did you go all the way through high school in California?
CANDIE KUNG: I did.  I went to high school and to USC for a couple years, and here I am.
Q. Do you still get back there?
CANDIE KUNG: Not too often because of the schedule.  Probably the week that we have the tournament in Taiwan and maybe the week after the Asia swing if I can.
Q. How much pride just being Taiwanese, especially with the Olympics coming up, you know, that flag and...
CANDIE KUNG: It means a lot just because I grew up there and I been playing golf representing Chinese Taipei.  Now that we actually have Olympics -- we have International Crown that we can represent our country, as well.
The Olympics, you watch it on TV every four years.  Back in 2008 I believe I was going to go to the one in Beijing, but I didn't get to go.  Couldn't get tickets.
Now I am actually going to get to go and see a lot of the Olympians, which is going to be kind of cool.
Q. What about 2012?  No golf then?
CANDIE KUNG: 2008 it was because the opening ceremony was on the day of my birthday.  It was 08.08.08, I so wanted to go.  I wanted to be there.
Q. Birthday was priority?
CANDIE KUNG: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT