U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2017
Kendall Griffin
Kathleen Gallagher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your first thoughts?  You just beat the defending champs in this event in a really up-and-down match where you were ahead, fell down, had to come back again.  Just give me your first impressions.
KENDALL GRIFFIN: Well, yeah, we knew it was going to be a tough match.  We respect both of them a lot.  I have kind of seen them play in tournaments a lot, but I never got actually to play with them, so I was kind of excited to get to play with them.  We knew it was going to be a really good match and a fun match, and we knew it was going to be tough.  But yeah, it was up and down a lot.  There was a lot of birdies on the front, and we got 3-up on them and then they came right back, so we just kind of then decided we were going to play a new match on the final nine holes, and then the two birdies on the last couple holes really helped us out a lot.
Q. You made the birdies on both holes?
KENDALL GRIFFIN: Yeah.
Q. What happened on those holes?
KENDALL GRIFFIN: Well, I hit my drive --
KATHLEEN GALLAGHER: There was putts all around the hole.
KENDALL GRIFFIN: Yeah, 16 she had a putt, too, but I went first, and I made mine.
KATHLEEN GALLAGHER: But even for them, they had birdie putts.  They could have gone either way.
KENDALL GRIFFIN: Kaitlyn had a good birdie putt on the par-5, and she lipped out, and then Hailee had a good birdie putt on the last hole, too, and she missed hers.  That was kind of the difference at the end there.
Q. How much does it help your confidence you won three of the first four holes like that?
KATHLEEN GALLAGHER: I think just knowing defending champs, how good of players they were.  I mean, we were aware that they were going to come out firing it with their best game, and I think just having a little momentum gave us a little more confidence to be like, look, I mean, this is like an everyday game, we just have to play our own ball.  It's not a big deal.  Let's just go have fun.  We never get to play with each other.  This is literally our second time ever.  So it's just been fun.  I mean, she's going to be with me on the team next year, and we're here, we're having fun, not going to worry about -- we're just playing our ball, having a good attitude about it all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT