U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2015
George Cunningham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the ace at the 14th.  What did you hit and the whole scenario?  
GEORGE CUNNINGHAM: It was 140, a little downwind.  I had pitching wedge.  The pin was on the front right there in the middle of the green, so I was hitting just a little soft pitching wedge, and when I hit it, I knew -- I'm like, it was right at the pin, but it was just like, I think that's going to come up a little short, and it actually did.  It landed just short of the green and kicked forward.  I couldn't see it, but the group in front of me on the tee, they raised their hands and everyone kind of went crazy, so I knew it went in when they raised their hands.  No, I thought it was coming up a little short, but it ended up hopping forward and going in the hole.   
 Q.  But you followed up with birdies on 17 and 18, and then you knew you had something special going.  
GEORGE CUNNINGHAM: Yeah.  I had a little lull after the -- I was putting really good.  I had made some putts early in the day, so after that I was swinging it really well, almost birdied -- let's see, almost birdied the next hole, missed a little short putt, missed a short putt on the next hole, and then birdied 17 and 18, but when I switched to the back nine, had the first five holes, which are just brutal, and it kind of stopped my little run.   
But no, it was close.  I almost had an unbelievable round, but 66 wasn't too bad.   
 Q.  You're in the match play; it's been a while since you've been in the U.S. Amateur.  What's your emotions like right now?  
GEORGE CUNNINGHAM: I'm excited that I made match play after yesterday's 1-over.  I knew I had to play well in this round.  I'm real excited.  I was a little nervous out there, especially after how low I was.  I'm like, I might have a chance to lead the medalist.  But no, I'm really excited to have a chance, and hopefully I get a good draw and can make it a little ways in the match play.   
 Q.  You've been in match play in juniors.  What can you take from that experience that's going to help you the rest of the week?  
GEORGE CUNNINGHAM: Well, just learning how to play match play.  It's such a different mindset.  It's okay if you make a double bogey or triple bogey because it's only one hole, so I think just the experience of how to play match play, the mindset of it, with going at pins.  You play off your competitor, not just off the golf course.   
 Q.  And now that match play is going to be on the North Course, your thoughts about the North Course as a match play course?  
GEORGE CUNNINGHAM: I really like it.  It's a little longer, a little tighter, the rough is a little longer, which I think makes it a little more exciting, especially there's a couple more options -- there's some more options, you can play off the tee, try to play conservative, hit it in the fairway or play aggressive and try to get it down there, even if you're in the rough.  I think it's going to be an unbelievable match play course with the rough and the greens.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT