WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2006
Severine Bremond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  What's it like playing Justine out there on a grass court?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  It's very impressive.  Was my first time against Justine, first time on Court 1.  So it was too much for me maybe for the first time.   
 I was not so ready to play like that on this court.  And, uhm, I mean, Justine is a great player.  She's wonderful on grass.  I knew it was tough, but I did my best.  I mean, but she was better anyway.   
  
  Q.  Your best wasn't bad?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  Sorry?   
  
  Q.  Your best was not bad?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  Yeah, my best wasn't bad, but it was not good enough anyway.   
  
  Q.  Is this the best tennis you've played in your career, this last ten days at Wimbledon?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  Yeah, for sure.  I mean, I think I never played like that before.  It's my first quarters in a Grand Slam, so you don't do that like this with chances.   
 It was a really good, good tennis all those 10 days.  Today I was a bit tired.  Yesterday I thought I could have one day off, you know, and play only on Wednesday.  I'm not so disappointed because it was great.   
  
  Q.  What has created the breakthrough?  Why are you playing your best tennis now?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  I think I love grass (smiling).  I always loved grass.  But this year especially the grass was good for me because it wasn't too, uhm, fast, but not too slow, just perfect for me, for my game.  I could play on the baseline, I could go to the net, I could just do all the things that I know.  So it was a good year for me.   
  
  Q.  Where did you learn to serve and volley?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  I learned it looking on TV, Pete Sampras and Boris Becker when I was 10 years old.  I always wanted to play like that, but not only serve and volley, I like doing something else.  But on grass, for sure, it's great advantage for me.   
  
  Q.  Were you scared going into this game?  Were you afraid at any point?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  Yes and no.  So-so.  I didn't sleep so well, for sure.  But I said to myself, trying to say to myself, Okay, what you did is already great, now it's just everything is bonus, you know, so just go and play and do what you can.  I mean, even if you lose, it's not so disappointing.   
  
  Q.  Did you enjoy yourself?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  Yeah, I did (smiling).   
  
  Q.  So do you think you can kick on from this, and where do you think you can go now in the game?  Do you think you are really on the threshold of some big improvement?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  I think I learned a lot all those 10 days, so now I really -- you know, I know that I can do that.  So before I didn't know.  Now I know.   
 So, uhm, I will try to learn all the best that this tournament give me, and so I'll try to do it next Grand Slam.  Now I'm thinking about the US Open and I'm saying, Okay, that would be good to do the same.   
  
  Q.  Were you concentrating more on university at one stage of your life than tennis?  Was that a sort of distraction from tennis, going to university?  And what did you study?  Law?   
 SEVERINE BREMOND:  Yeah, I didn't really study law.  I mean, I been one year in the university because I was injured.  I always knew that I wanted to play tennis anyway, but my parents wanted me to have something else than tennis in case, you never know.   
 But I knew from the beginning.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT