MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Saw you on the practice round, you were talking to Mark, and coming off and you looked really relaxed an comfortable.   Is that where your game is or where this course is?   
LARRY MIZE:   What do you mean?   I'm not sure.  
   
 Q.   I mean, how comfortable ‑‑ just this place loves you and you love this place?  
LARRY MIZE:   There is no doubt about that.   I wasn't as comfortable with my game at times as I would like to be on the course, but I always love playing this golf course and coming here, there is no doubt.   I just got ‑‑ you know, there is still a few rough edges with my game that need to be worked out and we're in the process of doing that.   I just didn't quite do that for this week.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
LARRY MIZE:   No.   I played the par 5s horrible.   I played 13 three over.   You can't do that.   
I played 15 even.   
I played 2, 1‑under.   
I have got to play the par 5s better than that to play here.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to come out to watch the last two rounds or are you going to catch it on TV?   Do you know yet?   
LARRY MIZE:   I'll catch it on TV.   I'll probably come out and do some practicing, get ready for next week, and just keep working on some of the things I need to work on.  
   
 Q.   It's crazy how fast time flies in terms of the anniversary of this?  
LARRY MIZE:   It really is.   It's amazing.   Time does fly.   The older you get, the faster it goes, too.  
   
 Q.   Are you in Augusta this weekend?  
LARRY MIZE:   Yeah.   We'll head book home Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Do you still get a tingle when you walk up 11?   
LARRY MIZE:   You know, really when you are playing, you are so focused on playing the golf course, not really.   I mean, obviously it's a great memory there, but when you play in the tournament, you are really trying to focus on play so maybe I should ‑‑ maybe I should get a tingle there more often, I don't know.   
   
 Q.   What's the reception been like this week?   
LARRY MIZE:   It's been good.   I mean, but it's always been good.   I don't know if it's been that much different as far as the fans go.   I think the fans have been the same.   I think there's been more with the media with the attention there, but with the fans I think it's been the same pretty much as always, which is really good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT