U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2010
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LARRY MIZE: Well, anytime you break 70 on this golf course I think it's a good achievement. The other two rounds were just a little too high. I played -- struggled the first day, which put me behind the 8-ball. Actually I didn't get much out of my round yesterday. Yesterday hurt me. I needed to shoot under par again yesterday to kind of try to get in there, but I couldn't get it done yesterday. And that was the killer; plus the first day was a bad start.  
  
  Q. The first day were the pin placements the hardest?  
 LARRY MIZE: I don't know. That's a good question. I can't answer that. I think they did a great job of setting it up, making it tough but yet very playable. They had some good pins every day. I don't know if the first day was the toughest. I hit a few errant shots that first day. I would say it was pretty consistent overall. I didn't think it played easy any day.  
 I guess today they say scores may be a shot lower, but you're talking about one shot or half a shot, not like two or three shots lower. You're still shooting -- J.R. today shot even par and made up ground, you know. So it's just -- it's a good test out there.  
  
  Q. It looks like Langer is going to do all four days sub-70?  
 LARRY MIZE: That's pretty impressive, and especially coming off the victory last week, and trying to stay focused and keep your energy level and your mental state in good shape. But some pretty impressive play, yeah.   
  
  Q. Talk about the tournament in general. What kind of memories -- about your whole experience?  
 LARRY MIZE: I think there will be good memories. I thought they did a really good job setting it up. This was my second U.S. Open. I thought last year was good. I thought this year was good. I'll leave here with good impressions. I'll leave here with blinders, because the fairways were so tight, I'm telling you. I think this is as narrow as it gets here.  
 The people of Seattle, the crowds were great. It was just a really good week overall. Good golf and crowds are good and the weather was great.   
  
  Q. Did you think the hole locations were more accessible today?  
 LARRY MIZE: I think every day they made a few that you could get to. But they still put them back in fingers, like it was hard to get to the third pin back behind the little mound there.  
 3 was tough. 2 was a very tough pin. 1, even though it's front and left, it's hard to put it in there close. I don't think they were easier today. I think maybe it was a little nicer day. But they say scores are a little better but I don't think you're going to find they're going to be that much better. You've got Olin Browne shooting low, and Tom shot 4-under, but still a lot of good pins out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT