THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 1997
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LARRY MIZE:  Well, I played another solid round today.  I got off to a good start, birdied 3, 4 and 5, and just made a bunch of pars 'til I birdied 12, with my lone bogey at 14, then came back and birdied 17.  So, really pleased.  Drove the ball well again, hit a lot of good shots.  I think the whole key is when I do miss it, I am missing it playable.  My misses are playable, and I am getting away with misses.  And, in my opinion, that is when you play well.  It is a game of misses, and when you miss it okay, you play well.  That is what I am doing.  I am putting well, and I really think I am doing everything well, putting well, chipping, so I am pleased with the day.  It was another good day to play golf.  It seems like the wind is picking up.  It may be a little tougher this afternoon, but it was a nice day out there, and I am happy to be sitting here talking to you all. 
 
LARRY MIZE:  Okay.  Birdied No. 3.  Hit a really good 7-iron in there about, oh, 3 or 4 feet.  Made that for birdie.  I am in the 2% on 4.  I knocked it up top and made it for birdie.  Got a chuckle out of that.  I kind of left -- I guess it was 8-iron, hung it out to the right a little bit and did leave it up top, hit a good putt there and made it. 
 
LARRY MIZE:  I guess it's got to be in the 30-, 35-foot range, somewhere like that.  And, then No. 5, I drove it in the left rough, took a 4-iron, knocked it down there in the rough by those bunkers over to the right, and knock that in the hole for birdie. Thank you very much.  So that was an unexpected surprise.  I guess I was maybe 30 yards from the pin and just hit a flop-shot up high and hit on the green and just trickled in the hole just like a putt.  Then hit a nice drive and a sand wedge in there 12, about 12 feet; made that for birdie.  And 14, I bogeyed.  Hit a good drive, but hit a bad 4-iron right and short, hit a bad chip long and missed it from about 10 feet for par.  17:  Hit a 9-iron about 15 feet, made that for birdie.  Then, I made a nice save at 18.  Right rough and, you  know, chipped it up and made about 10-footer for par or maybe 8-footer.  So, played good, had some nice things happen with the chip-in and things like that.  That is always nice.  Still, I played a good round, and.... here I am. 
 

Q.  This is the time of year when you chip in, isn't it?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Close.  We are in the wrong month, though.  I am one-month early.  But, you know, obviously -- I mean, I did hit a good shot, but there is some luck, obviously, if the ball goes in the hole and I would have had a tap-in for par, but it went and I kind of just laughed and shook my head. That was a nice surprise, because, actually, for me, you're kind of saying, okay, even if you make bogey here, you are playing good.  You're kind of preparing yourself not -- you are not giving up, but you are preparing yourself for what ever may happen.  Then you do the best to get through the hole.  And, it turns out, it goes in, whatever.  I was doing good at the time.  Just kind of an extra boost. 
 

Q.  Larry, in all of the years I have known you and followed you, I have never seen you more relaxed at the start of the tournament and the couple of days before.  And, I just wondered - and this good round has been welling up inside of you - did this have any affect that you have been so relaxed during this round today? 
 
LARRY MIZE:  A good friend of mine told me I seem to play at my best when I am relaxed and smiling out there.  So I have been working on trying to be more relaxed and smile.  I know Sunday at Bay Hill last week, I turned to my caddie, I said, "Hey, let's go out there and just have some laughs."  So, it does seem to help.  Mark Long, who is Nolan's caddie, he was telling me some funny jokes out there.  We were having a good time; had a good group.  I think it does help me to just get relaxed and enjoy it.  And, sometimes you can take yourself a little too seriously out there and get a little uptight, and it can affect your play.  So, I am going to try and smile the entire weekend. 
 

Q.  Does it seem like it has been ten years since you have won --
 
LARRY MIZE:  No. 
 

Q.  And your thoughts --
 
LARRY MIZE:  It has gone by fast.  It doesn't feel like it has been ten years.  I guess I have been taken back with all the attention that the 10-year anniversary -- I didn't even know it was ten years.  Actually, I guess Al Barkow said something at the tournament last year, "Next year is going to be 10."  That is the first time I heard of it.  It really has been fun, because I kind of had to relive it again.  Michael Bamberger came over and stayed with me for a couple of days last week, and we watched the Sunday tape.  And, I have to admit, that is the first time I have ever sat down and watched the tape in its entirety of the Sunday round.  It was a blast.  So, reliving it, and all this has been a lot of fun. And, it has gotten me probably a little -- maybe even a little more excited than normal for Augusta, you know, because it was a great memory for me ten years ago.  And, to kind of relive it again has been a lot of fun, and it will get you pumped up for Augusta. 
 

Q.  Did it come back like it happened yesterday?  I mean, oh, yeah, I remember that, I remember that --
 
LARRY MIZE:  Yeah, pretty much.  I can't remember all my feelings.  I remember most of them.  I remember the elation when it went in the hole.  That is one of the nice things, I have never gone back to that spot.  So, when I see the chip-in, I remember what happened that day because I still yet to go back to where I was. Because I wanted to keep the memory pure.  And, I am glad I did that.  So, yeah a lot of things comes back real fresh, but some of the things I was thinking I can't remember exactly what I was thinking, but for the most part, I can relive it again. 
 

Q.  When you pitched in today, did the gallery bring up  Augusta at all?
 
LARRY MIZE:  No.  They kind of went a little crazy and were cheering and everything, but, no, they didn't bring up Augusta. 
 

Q.  You said that is the first time you have watched the Sunday tape all the way through.  Any reason why you hadn't --
 
LARRY MIZE:  Normally I fast forward to me.  I mean, it is terrible, but you fast forward to watch yourself.  But, that is really a mistake because you miss a little of the feeling of the tournament, you know, sitting there and watching everything.  But the bad thing is it takes two, two and a half hours.  Let us face it, I don't want to sit there for that long.  But, I did -- I did fast forward through the commercials.  But, you know, you just don't want to sit there for that long.  Poor Michael, he didn't leave the house 'til 12:45 that night because we got started after dinner.  But, he was fine with it.  I was having a great time.  But, yeah, that is kind of why I have never done it that way.  But, I promise, I will do it again.  I had so much fun watching it.  I will watch it in its entirety again. 
 

Q.  How much has that changed you and how different a player are you now than you were ten years ago?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Well, hopefully, it hasn't changed me personally.  As a player, gee, I don't know if it has changed me.  It has been a wonderful victory given me a lot of opportunities.  I have been able to do things I never would have been able to do if I hadn't won there.  So, that has been great.  As far as a player, gee, I don't know if it has changed me.  I mean, that is an a good question.  I think, you know, deep down there maybe a little more confidence, or something along that line, knowing that you have won it and you have got that one in your resume, let's say, so, I think that is a plus that you have won it and you know that -- you definitely know you can do it because you have done it.  So I think that is a plus for me to have that in there. 
 

Q.  Are you a different player?  Has your game changed since then?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Yeah, I really think so.  I think I am a better ball-striker now than I was ten years ago.  My short game, I am trying to get it back up to that level.  I think my short game was a little better then than it is now.  But I am working hard on my short game to get it back up.  And, I guess those would be the two differences.  But, I definitely think I hit the ball better now. 
 

Q.  How much incentive is there to change what a great memory here in this tournament, is that on your mind at all--
 
LARRY MIZE:  It really didn't.  That did gnaw at me a little bit after the fact, but I have been able to put it to  bed and put it to rest.  Obviously, winning Augusta, the next year helped that.  But, you know, I'd love to win and, you know, I'd love to win.  It is sweet for anybody to win here and it will be nice to win it after having that chance 11 years ago.  But, that is really not on my mind because, thank goodness, I have been able to put that to rest. 
 

Q.  Do you recall your thoughts going to the tee in the playoff?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Yeah, these guys don't have a chance, pretty much.  (Audience laughter.)  No.  I was really excited to be there.  I remember I birdied the 18th hole and so that gave me a lot of confidence.  I played really well.  I come back and played the last six holes 3-under on Saturday and that gave me a lot of confidence going into Sunday.  I bring that up just because all of those things I just really had done whatever I needed to do that week.  Birdie at 18.  So, I was nervous, but not as nervous as I probably would have expected me to be because of those reasons, birdieing 18, and, you know, really feeling good about my chances.  I mean, obviously, I respect those guys and they are great players, but they hadn't beaten me for 72.  And, I couldn't go in there thinking they could beat me now.  I knew I  was the underdog and I was happy to be there. 
 

Q.  Going back to the chip at The Masters, do you think that this being a 10th year, you might go back and look at it?
 
LARRY MIZE:  No.  Not unless I hit it there. 
 

Q.  Never?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Never.  I mean, it will ruin the memory.  When I see that chip shot now, I can relive the chip shot because that is the last time I was at that spot and the only way I will go back to that spot is to hit it there and I don't want to hit it there again.  And even if I did, well, I guess I might know if I am in that same spot.  I will play with guys and they will say, "where did you hit it from?"  It is over there somewhere.  I am not even sure where it is.  I know the general area.  But, it is just a wonderful memory.  It is not spoiled and I don't want to spoil it. 
 

Q.  You are wearing soft spikes now?
 
LARRY MIZE:  No. 
 

Q.  Playing those?
 
LARRY MIZE:  No, this a great shoe by Mizuno.  It is a great answer.  There are seven spikes instead of 11 and they are shorter and they got little nubs and I don't spike up the greens at all and they are really comfortable.  But, yet, I still have some short spikes to grip into the ground, so I love them.  But I guess they are still not legal on some courses even though they are very green-friendly.  
 

Q.  Just to go back to that shot one more time, the way you strike the ball now, if you were to play, would you hit it there again the way?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I didn't mean to hit it there in the first place. 
 

Q.  You say you are a better ball-striker, would you think that you would hit a better shot than that, than that second shot?
 
LARRY MIZE:  You nerve know.  I think I would have a good chance of hitting a better shot, but you never know.  There is a lot of pressure and you don't want to hit it in the water, but you don't want to hit it there.  I think that -- I don't know, I don't want to go do it over again.  I am happy with the way it turned out.  I learned a lot of things.  A great example is:  I hit a shot at the pin on 15 on Sunday and the pin was left and that is not very smart.  You don't shoot at that pin.  You watch Seve and Greg came up back behind me, when you watch the video, they both hit it at the center of the green; went long; chipped it; got up-and-down.  I shot at the pin; hit it a long little long; in the water at 16.  So, I made some mistakes there that I learned.  That would have helped me.  But, as far as hitting the ball, I hit the ball really well that week.  So, whether I hit the ball any better that week now, I don't know, but, generally speaking, I  think I strike the ball better than I used to.  And, I think, you know, hopefully that will happen as time goes on, you just get a little better with everything.  And, you try and keep your short game as good as it was when you were younger. 
 

Q.  When you think back on that shot - you say you don't want to spoil the memory - what were you thinking before you hit that shot?  What was in your mind standing over the shot?
 
LARRY MIZE:  All I can remember - and I remember saying this back when they asked me afterwards - is I am trying to hit a good, aggressive shot and put it close to the hole because the greens were too hard to hit the ball-- to land the ball on the green and that was really a positive because there was no decision to make.  I was very decisive about the shot because there was no other way to play it.  And, having to bump it through the grass, even though it is short, the rye grass at Augusta is real sticky and grabs the ball, so, I just was trying to hit a really good, aggressive shot through it; get it on the green and roll it to the hole and that was my whole objective. 
 

Q.  After you made the swing, before it goes in, after you made the swing, do you remember --
 
LARRY MIZE:  My eyes were about that big (indicating the circumference cap of a water bottle).  And, it got closer, it got about that big (indicating the circumference of the  bottom of the water bottle).  I had a putt for par on that line in regulation and made it.  So, I knew it was breaking right-to-left.  I knew I had to get the ball to the right.  It just came off perfect and when it got on the green, it was rolling at a nice speed and breaking toward the whole.  It is funny, if you watch me, when I hit it I am in a position, I don't move.  I am frozen.  I am just watching it, and watching it, and it is looking better and better.  And, I am just frozen until it goes in; then I throw the club up and go off.  So, I think my only thought is, you know, "this is looking good.  Oh, my goodness.  Oh, my, goodness.  Oh, my, goodness."  It is in the hole.  I was just frozen there watching it.  I wasn't just thinking anything, but it is looking pretty good. 
 

Q.  Were you thinking at all about Greg?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Not at that time. 
 

Q.  Afterwards?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Yeah, afterwards, I got through, calmed down I am trying to think -- actually, afterwards, I am just trying to prepare myself to go to 12.  I mean, you know, you have to expect the worst in golf.  So, I am expecting him to make it.  I have to admit, I had a thought, he can't make it now.  Then, oh, I think he can make it.  After it is all over, you can't -- I don't think you can't help but have a little feeling for Greg.  Obviously, he  played well but somebody has got to win.  And, I did.  But, I did have a little feeling for Greg.  Not as much as I did last year. 
 

Q.  What I meant is like you had discussed saying that he could knock it in now and take the wind out of this whole thing --
 
LARRY MIZE:  I am sorry.  I don't understand. 
 

Q.  What I meant is not so much feeling for him that he lost, but as he is going-- he could still knock it in.
 
LARRY MIZE:  Yeah, I prepared myself to go to 12.  I said, okay, he can knock it in, let us go to 12.  I prepared myself as well as you can in that situation. 
 

Q.  What about the purple shirts?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I have got one left.  I have got the one I wore.  That is it.  I think that is the only one.  They did send me a bunch and people wanted autographed auctioned stuff and I sent some out, things like that.  I know I have got the one I wore.  I don't know if I have extras. 
 

Q.  Norman had said that that really knocked him out for a long time and it even took him a little while -- have you ever talked to him about it?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Only time we ever talked is at Hilton Head the next week.  I saw him in the locker room and I did want to tell him that I thought he handled everything great and he was a class act in the way he handled it.  And he said  something like, thanks, or -- he was very nice.  I can't remember what he said back.  But, I said that to him.  I just wanted to tell him that.  Other than that, I mean, there is not a whole lot that you can say. 
 

Q.  Maybe you read things about him crying on the beach afterwards or anything like that; how does that --
 
LARRY MIZE:  I do not think I remember reading that one.  So you are telling me something I didn't read.  You know, you feel for the guy.  I mean, but you just -- you feel for him and I mean, there is not a whole lot I can say.  But, because I am the one that beat him.  I didn't know that.  I am sorry. You know, I probably don't know what to say.  I just wanted him to know I thought he handled it well, and you can't get up here and apologize for something you did because that is what you are trying to do. 
 

Q.  How did you feel when you watched about him when you watched last year's Masters?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I am probably glad because I didn't have to watch it.  That is tough to watch.  We have all played poorly and Augusta, it is a fine line between playing good and doing something like that.  And, I think, as a player, we can relate.  It doesn't take much.  The ball gets going backwards. It is pretty severe at Augusta.  It can go and with Nick breathing down your neck playing a good round so-- we were driving, my family and I, to Hilton Head and I stopped and  called my parents to see what happened.  I really felt for him when that did happen.  I think you are going to feel for anybody in that situation.  I am glad I didn't have to watch it.  But I definitely felt for him at the time.  And, the good thing is Greg is resilient enough and tough enough guy that he can handle it.  It is kind of like Bernhard Langer at the Ryder Cup.  We are good friends.  I hate that it happened to Bernhard.  But, you are kind of happy in one respect that he can handle it.  Where, somebody else, it may be tougher on them.  Greg will be back and, you know, it is -- when you are as good a player as Greg is, I think they have said it many times, that is going to happen to you some.  Nobody has finished second more than Jack Nicklaus.  And, he is the best as far as winning big tournaments than anybody.  It is unfortunate.  But, Greg is a tough guy and he will come back from it.  Maybe he already has. 
 

Q.  What do you think of Nick's final round there last year?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I think it was a great round. 
 

Q.  Why?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Well, I mean, there is -- there is a time when you take the lead that all of a sudden now the pressure is on you and he continued to play well.  I don't remember exactly what happened, but right around amen corner, he took the lead  and he continued to put the pedal down and make birdies.  Greg, if I remember correctly, you all know more than I do, but he kind of lost the lead; then he came back.  And, Nick could have faultered then.  But he didn't and continued to play.  So, you know, it is a tough situation with all that going on.  And, to shoot 67 on the last day to win Augusta, that is a great round of golf - whatever the situation.  But, I just think the pressure was on Greg; then all of a sudden the pressure was on Nick.  He handled it well. Greg came back at him.  Nick, he answered and continued to make birdies, right? 
 

Q.  He did.
 
LARRY MIZE:  That is pretty good there.  Because, you know, if Nick doesn't play as well, Greg could still win the golf tournament.  So I mean, I don't want -- I guess -- I think  -- you don't want to get up here and look solely at Greg.  You got to feel for him and it is unfortunate.  But, then you have got to give Nick his due in how well he played and how he was there to take the tournament when he had the opportunity.  And, that is not easy to do.  I have said too much. 
 
LARRY MIZE:  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT