THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 31, 1996
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LARRY MIZE:  We will see.  Pretty easy.  We parred the first 12, birdied 13, hit a 6-iron in there on the back fringe and made it -- how far would that have been?  I will say 20 feet.  Made it from about 2 feet on 13.  And then 15, I drove it just a little right, hit the trees and went in the right rough.  Pitched it out into the fairway and knocked a 4-wood on about -- I don't know how many feet, 13 feet and then had that for birdie.  That was a nice birdie there.  It worked out nice and just pitched it out perfect.  Parred the last 3.  Two birdies and the rest pars. 
 
LARRY MIZE:  The course played easier today.  It is still playing hard, but it wasn't playing quite as long today. I felt like, you know, there was some still some hard pins, but I think there maybe might have been a few easier pins out there today than yesterday; but the conditions, you know, the wind was not as much a factor.  I mean, it is just a gentle breeze out there.  Warmer day; course was a little drier.  It is still wet out there, but a little drier, so it did play shorter, so...  This golf course is always hard, in my opinion, but it  was much -- it was better conditions today, and I think the scores are dictating that.  I shot two worse than yesterday, but that is golf.  So I think it was an ideal day to play golf today.  We need two more days like this.  This is -- I think we are going to get one more.  I don't think we are going to get two more, but it was a great day out there. 
 
LARRY MIZE:  I made -- well, 1 and 2 I had it in the 18 to 20 feet range.  3, about the same.  4 about the same.  5 was a little closer, but I never really hit anything close.  That was the thing.  I am going to work on my irons a little bit.  I need to knock it a little closer to the hole this weekend.  I made a good par save at 6.  I hit a really good pitch -- pin is front left and I missed it to the right of the green and I  made a really good chip there for about five feet and made that for par.  Hit a bad 7-iron into 8 and pin is front left and I hit it in the right bunker and hit my bunker shot a little long; made it from probably close to ten feet there, made an 8 or 10-footer there for par.  So those were a couple of nice putts and nice up-and-downs to keep me going.  Other than that, it was calm. 
 

Q.  Are you playing next week, Larry? 
 
LARRY MIZE:  No, I am playing here Monday in the Open qualifier, then I am going home. 
 

Q.  Is this the toughest you have ever seen the rough here?  Tom Watson said it might even tougher than the last couple of Opens.
 
LARRY MIZE:  It is pretty good.  I haven't been in a lot of it.  I know my chip shot on 6 was terrible.  I mean, it was not -- it was sitting down there.  It was a tough lie. Where else?  Other times -- I missed the fairways -- the rough was not good on 15. 
 

Q.  You'd rather be in the bunker?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Well, according to which bunker, but generally, yeah.  I mean, there are a few bunkers you don't want to be in.  I hit the bunker in 7 in the corner.  You don't want to be in that one, but it worked out okay.  I'd say this is probably -- I can't argue with him.  I haven't been in the rough that much.  But the little bit I have been in, you don't want to be in the rough out here, so it is -- it is definitely a factor. 
 

Q.  People were talking about -- there wasn't nobody was putting up a really low score.  Now John Houston is 10 under par with about 5 holes left.  Is that just a case of one guy getting hot or the conditions getting to the point where somebody that gets hot can really --
 
LARRY MIZE:  I think the conditions today are ideal  for that like that something to happen.  Also in my opinion, John Houston is a very talented explosive kind of player.  I mean John, to me, will take it deep a number of times each year, so I think that the course is playing, you know, probably as tame as it can play.  Obviously there is still some good pin placements, but as far as the conditions, but you got to take your hat off to John.  When he gets hot, he can run the tables. He hits the ball a long way; which he is doing. 
 

Q.  Are you prone to doing that occasionally, Larry, or are you more of a four straight 68s?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Well, either way.  I think sometimes I do that, but then if I get it going, I can shoot some low numbers, also I probably am not as known for the low numbers as a lot of guys are, but you -- I still feel like I can do that. 
 

Q.  Just about anybody out here probably could?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Everybody can.  I mean, so much of it is the putting.  Putting is one of my strong points and, you know, you can get it going.  I mean, I had a chance yesterday to kind of take it -- well, for yesterday, to shoot 66 or a 65 which I think would have been pretty deep for yesterday, when I was playing or anybody was playing, and I slipped up coming in a little bit bogeying 15, but yeah, you get the putter going out there, the greens are good, and rolling roll in some putts, it is -- and also when you have got a little length, which John does, it makes it a little easier.  
 
LARRY MIZE:  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT