JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 19, 1993
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Welcome the 1993 Johnnie Walker World Champion Larry Mize.  This is probably - well, certainly the biggest margin of your life?
 
LARRY MIZE:  It is a great trophy.  To beat a field of the caliber of this is always an accomplishment.  To win this by this type of margin, it was an experience.  I played really well.  I guess I was most pleased with the way I just continued to press on, and concentration stayed good, and I just didn't let up, and I didn't get, you know, ahead of myself; kept playing the shots as they came because, you know, you just - you don't want to stop the momentum; you want to keep going forward.  I think that the thing about today that I am most pleased with is how I just stayed with it and just kept on playing, and I played a good solid back 9 after having the lead and, you know, it is a thrill to win. Just kinds of adds to it when you are able to win by this many.  It was a lot of fun out there.  You want me to go through the whole -- 
 

Q.   The front 9 you really demolished.
 
LARRY MIZE:  Front 9 was good to me again.  Number 3, I birdied the par 3 down the hill.  I had a little 8-iron there about ten feet, made that for birdie.  4, I drove it in a right rough, had to lay up, then I wedged it up there about four, five feet; made that for birdie.  6, I hit a wedge in there about six feet; made that for birdie.  4 wood wedge there.  Then, 12, I hit 2-iron, what did I hit? 2-iron, 9-iron, and made it from about 15 feet there.  And 14, I hit a really good drive.  Probably the best drive of the week.  4 wood, just short, chipped it up; made it from about three feet.  And, 17, I hit another excellent drive; a good 4-iron, about six feet or so, and made 2 putted for birdie there.  So, you know, I made some good putts for par.  I had to-- made good putt for par at the 5th hole and the 7th hole, and then I made a nice, I guess, that is about it.  5th and 7th hole. 
 

Q.   How long were those?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I made it from probably about ten feet at number 5.  I made the putt for par.  I hit it left. Hit a pretty good chip; awful tough going downhill, down grain.  I made that for par.  Then what was the other one I said? 
 

Q.   7.
 
LARRY MIZE:  7, I hit it on the green, down grain again. I hit -- I thought I hit a really good putt.  It went by the green, was really fast, and it went by about five feet.  And then I made that one coming back for par there.  And so those were nice putts.  I am in good shape.  They kept the ball rolling in the right direction.  There were a couple of key putts earlier in the rounds that kept the momentum going. 
 

Q.   You got a good start.  Finished with a bogey last night.
 
LARRY MIZE:  I probably did my best job of blowing off the bogey on 18 yesterday.  Nobody likes to end with a bogey.  I played so well and they happen.  I guess I was really pleased last night that I just-- I didn't let that bogey bother me.  It kind of lingers with  you.  I released it; didn't think about that.  I am sure that helped coming into today.  It was good to get off to a good start and Colin had a tougher day.  Got off to a tough start; gave me some room.  I just want to keep playing the way I had and keep the pedal down, and I was really pleased I was able to do that.  It was -- you dream about coming out here and shooting 65 when you have got a 3 shot lead.  This is one of those times it came true, and, you know, I am pretty happy. It was a great day. 
 

Q.   What are you getting Greg Norman for Christmas?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Well, I don't know.  It was all -- I am sorry he couldn't play, but then it was nice for the committee to pick me.  I appreciate the committee picking me after he withdrew.  I don't know.  I probably ought to get him something.  Give me some ideas.  I don't know. 
 

Q.   That was just three weeks ago you knew you were playing?
 
LARRY MIZE:  That is right.  The last Monday in November, I think, and I guess it was three weeks ago tomorrow I knew.  I think I had two weeks at home that I knew I was going to play.  I had to speed up my Christmas shopping.  And, you know, you like to come here, take advantage of it, and, you know, I, sure enough, I did this week. 
 

Q.   How does this week rank in terms of stroke making and so on?
 
LARRY MIZE:  The stroke, I mean as far as -- 
 

Q.   Well, in terms of good golf play, I mean.
 
LARRY MIZE:  I tell you.  It is always tough.  It is always tough to answer  that question.  I think today got to rank up there with one of my better rounds ever.  I think especially having a three-shot lead going out and playing so well today, you know, I wouldn't soon forget this round today.  It was something that will be good memories.  I will have it to reinforce - for reinforcement.  But this week has to rank some of the best golf, you know, you beat a field like this, 10 shots, I can't sit up here -- this has got to be some of the best golf I have played, or best round I have played under pressure for me; no doubt for me.  To do this and to shoot 65 when I had a three-shot lead, probably as good as I have played - guys would kill me if I don't say that, won't they? 
 

Q.   Larry, with your performance this year particularly - obviously finishing the year so well here, do you feel now that you are even-- more legitimately you belong in that category of top players and--
 
LARRY MIZE:  I don't know, you all tell me.  It was great to get back and win again this year after in the States, you know, after, you know, since from 87 'till now, and, you know - I don't know, I am just -- I guess that is one of the things that I am doing better.  I am just trying to be the best I can be, and I think I am getting there.  I think I am playing to my potential, and I think - I just hope that I am going to work hard to continue to play this way. Where I rank, I don't know; I am going to leave that up to everybody else where I rank.  What I am pleased with is I am getting -- I am playing to my potential, near my potential or whatever.  I am playing a game that I think as good as I, you know, where I think I can play,  that is what I am pleased about.  Where I rank, you know, I don't know.  Where I fit in, I don't know.  I am just like him competing against myself and trying to be the best I could be, that is for me, that is the best way for me to do it. 
 

Q.   When did you start feeling that way this year that you were really back to where you should be?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I am sure I won - when I won Tucson, that made me feel really good.  I think that that is one of the things I did this year; started competing against more against myself than against what somebody else thought or against the other players because you maybe out there and play great and somebody else just plays better and you don't win.  When I started feeling like that I think it has just been coming all year.  At times I felt like I was playing up to my potential; at other times I didn't.  You know, that to me, that is all any of us want to do is just play up to the caliber that we can play, and you know, that -- I am working hard to do that and then as good as I can play, that is all I can do.  It is just -- it is a lot more fun for me to play golf that way and a lot more enjoyable, and I am just going to work hard to keep doing that. 
 

Q.   You have been playing well throughout the four days.  At what particular point did you really feel that you could have won-- you could have won this tournament?
 
LARRY MIZE:  That is a good -- I tried not to think about that actually.  Once I got up to a 10 shot lead after maybe number 8, you know, you can't help but say, well, it is your tournament, you know, obviously with 10 holes left; you got a 10 shot lead, it is your tournament, so I guess you know, somewhere on the front 9, somewhere late on the front 9 I felt like it was my tournament, but as soon as that thought comes in your head, you put thoughts of continuing to play and concentrating on what is at hand, because there are still 10 holes left, so I guess it came into my mind then but I quickly made sure that I started focusing on the shot at hand and let all that wait until the 18th green. 
 

Q.   You spoke about maintaining your momentum now about keeping the focus on.  Is that something you work particularly hard on with your mental game the last year?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I worked very hard on that the last year, and it is you know, I have said before the last three or four years, the game keeps getting more mental, and I really-- this year really proved it to me.  I mean, you have obviously got to hit the shots; you got to be able to focus on the shot and not get distracted and you know, just keep things in perspective out there.  At times I have done it well and at times I hadn't.  That was the thing that was going to be the test today is could I focus, could I keep it in perspective.  You kind of look forward to that and hopefully the results will be good.  I was real pleased with that.  Something I will continue to work on because it is extremely important in a game of golf, I think. 
 

Q.   Colin had said the pressure was going to be on you today.  Were you conscious that he had said that did you know that he said that and were you conscious of that pressure?
 
LARRY MIZE:  No.  I didn't know he said that.  Last night and this morning I was conscious of that pressure.  You  know, when you have got a 3 shot lead and he is just 3 back and I guess the next person was what, 7 back or something, you know the heat is on the man in front, there is no doubt.  I felt the heat last night and even this morning I was a little nervous.  I felt the heat. You know once I came out to the golf course; start warming up normally, I started feeling better.  I am still my butterflies are still going hope.  I hope they are flying in formation, as they say.  And so, you know, I felt the heat was on but then I you know, I just said, you know, go out there and you know, play my game and enjoy the competition.  I mean, that is why we play this game, and it doesn't always work out that way.  You got to enjoy being in the heat.  You got to enjoy the competition even though it is nerve-wracking, but, you know, in my opinion we are all nervous out there, so I enjoyed it.  And I wanted to test myself and just play my game, and you know, today it worked out.  But I didn't know he said that - as I go rambling on here.  I didn't know he said that. I agree with him that the heat was on me. 
 

Q.   Did you look at the scoreboard at 8 after you finished the hole or while you were playing it?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I know I looked at it afterwards.  I might have looked-- I probably looked at it before I putted out.  I kind have had an idea.  I can't remember the first scoreboard I saw because I knew what Colin, what he was doing, but I didn't know what Bernhard or anybody else was doing.  They do have been 8 or 9 under for all I know.  Yeah, I looked at it before I finished the hole, I know that. 
 

Q.   So you were aware Fred was having a run --
 
LARRY MIZE:  At that point, Fred was 5 under.  I think, tied with or somewhere around there tied with Bernhard or something, and then it wasn't until I got to the 11th scoreboard where I saw that he was-- I think he already gotten to 8 at that point.  And so then you know, I guess I was 15, so you know, I kind of wanted to make some more birdies anyway.  I said keep playing, so then at the 11th hole was when I knew Fred was playing really well and had 3 more than he did just 3 holes ago. 
 

Q.   You say 15, you have got through that hole in par everyday, I think.  I don't think many competitors have done that this week.
 
LARRY MIZE:  15 is a tough par 3.  Everyday the wind was left to right.  The ball got to that green real quick. I think it played a lot shorter than I thought.  A lot of guys hit it over, so, playing that hole in par, was really good.  I played that stretch in there really good, because that is a hole that a lot could happen. 
 

Q.   How did you play that today?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I hit a 6-iron kind of on the back center an 2 putt it for about 30 feet.  You know, wasn't a really big 6.  Chuck said it is not a big one.  I wasn't about to get cute with it.  I just said I am going to stay with it; make sure I putt it a little left to the pin.  I pulled it a little bit probably, but you know, I was-- at that point you just want to hit a smart shot and not do anything crazy. 
 

Q.   Larry, you birdied 4 in 17 all 4 rounds, both of those holes.  Could you consider yourself a good 5 par player?
 
LARRY MIZE:  This week I was.  I think that my par 5 play has definitely improved this year.  I think over the  years my par 5 play has been mediocre at best, and this year, I think I played them better.  I think you know, whether I probably-- hit the ball a little bit better, I am not really sure exactly why, but you know, I think this year I did play them better.  This week I played par fives excellent.  I did bogey 14 one day and made par one day.  I still birdied 14 twice and birdied the other two the other day.  That is the key to this golf course.  Play those par fives well.  I like to get the little stats we get at the end of the year and compare, even though sometimes they could be misleading of the-- I feel like I am hitting the ball longer this year that I have been. 
 

Q.   What would your average be on the drive approximately?
 
LARRY MIZE:  290.  I am teasing.  When I am asleep they are 290.  I don't know, I think I am 255 to 260 range is what I think.  You know, if I catch one good, I can move it out there 270 but I am not long by any means, but there are times when I am hitting it good.  I feel like I can kind of sneak it out there a little bit. 
 

Q.   Larry, your rhythm never seems to vary.  Are you as calm on the outside as you seem to be on the inside or on the inside as you seem to be on the outside?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Sometimes.  I was really pretty calm today. I have got butterflies and things going like normal but I really was calm.  I think you know-- I just-- I don't know, I really kind of made my mind up just to go out and play my game and you know, let it go -- let it go. See what happens.  So I really was pretty calm.  But it is hard to say.  Sometimes I am not as calm.  A lot of times people say you look awfully calm and I am not.  I definitely try and stay as calm as I can and keep it in perspective, but you know, I am making everybody else think I am calm.  Actually, I am a little nervous inside. 
 

Q.   You were 12 under from the front 9 for the tournament.  Were you ever on a nine like that before in any tournament?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I don't know.  I tell you, 12 under, I doubt it.  I can't remember, but 12 under awfully good on front 9. 
 

Q.   It is the tougher 9; isn't it?
 
LARRY MIZE:  It probably is.  I mean, actually it is the longer nine probably and it is the one-- you have only got one par 5, but to me, the way the wind blew, I thought the back 9 played a little-- of course obviously, I mean, you know Colin obviously played better on the back versus the front.  But I think the front favors someone who draws the ball and I draw the ball.  So I think that favored me on the front.  And the back 9 you know, tends to fade hole and of course, after that you got a couple of drawled holes.  I think that the front 9 definitely favors a drawer of the ball more than the back.  18 is a fade hole also.  I probably haven't owned a 9 like this.  I can't remember, but 12 under is pretty good for a week on the front 9. 
 

Q.   Your rhythm is still smooth, Larry.  You seem to give it a more aggressive hit.  Is that something you tried to do?
 
LARRY MIZE:  One of the things David Leadbetter and I have worked on to really pick up the my tempo of my swing.  I got a nice smooth swing.  People like it.  Actually I get too smooth.  What I try and do a lot of times with my practice swing, I will take a real aggressive swing; try to get that feel.  I try to be more aggressive with my swings than I used to be.  It really helps under pleasure when you are more aggressive.  If you are smooth, too many things can happen.  You want to go aggressively at that ball.  I think that is a very good key for me.  I will try and be more aggressive with it. 
 

Q.   Larry three wins; over a million dollars this year, could you just kind of analyze, I mean, this is obviously your best year.  What are your thoughts as you look back?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Let us do it again.  It really was.  I guess people ask on Tour what is better 87 or 93 and you know, this year had 2 wins that year; had the Major; finished high on the money list then than now.  I really don't compare them, but obviously this is a year capping it off with this victory that will you know, is right there-- I mean 87 is special because being born and raised in Augusta; winning the Masters, but this year will be probably equally special for me personally, winning 3 tournaments; two in the states and this one here, this one-- this year will be equally as special as 87 to me, yes.  There is no doubt about it.  This put the cap on it.  That made it extra special. 
 

Q.   Both the previous winners here have gone off to win Majors the next year.  Does this give you encouragement for next year?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Well, one of the things I like to do, I haven't contended as well as I wanted to in the Majors in a few years, so that is one of the things I would like to do next year.  Obviously I'd like to win one but you have to get in contention before you can win it.  That is one thing I'd like to do next year and this definitely isn't a bad step in that direction. 
 

Q.   I am sure we all wish Larry a great year.
 
LARRY MIZE:  Hey, thank you all, you all have a Merry Christmas.  Thanks a lot. 
 

End of FastScripts....
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT