JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 17, 1993
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Good day?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Really was.  As you all know, it was a little breezier today and a little tougher day even though there were a lot of good stories out there.  And you know, I kept the ball in play; didn't get myself in lots of trouble and my putter worked well today and real pleased with the round; played really solid. 
 

Q.   Your putt on 18?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Yeah, it was-- how far was it? 
 

Q.   Yes.
 
LARRY MIZE:  It was about-- I am terrible at this. Probably ten feet.  I decided to chip that one because the rough, the fringe was a little hairier; didn't like the looks of it.  Just nice chip, uh?  It went off my hand; hit a really good putt.  I read it good.  I have been rolling the ball real good all week. 
 

Q.   How long was the 2-putt at 17?
 
LARRY MIZE:  2-putt at 17 probably about 40 foot range again. 
 

Q.   And next, a lot of the guys yesterday were saying they were having so much trouble with the grain, the grain on the Bermuda grass.  You didn't seem to have any trouble here?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I think a lot of it is -- it is nice.  I grew up on Bermuda there in Georgia, so I am used to it, and you know, a lot of us, when you are putting well, I am rolling the ball real well, and you know, when the greens are grainy -- I have had a couple of putts where the grain had eaten the ball up and I didn't make it, but I have just you know, maybe had it in the right position a lot of times and hit some good putts and they have gone in.  I feel you know, I felt really comfortable on the greens, but they are, you know, you have got to be careful with them and the grain does affect some of the putts. 
 

Q.   Larry, in the transcripts of yesterday I think you said that Greg Norman actually rang you to tell you that he was not playing yesterday.  Was that right?
 
LARRY MIZE:  He withdrew and then the tournament -- actually the tournament called me, the cornerstone who I am with, management company, and group; then they called me, so it wasn't Greg himself.  But that is who I got in for. 
 

Q.   How do you feel about that given your history with Greg?
 
LARRY MIZE:  I think it is very nice of him.  I just -- he is all right.  He just was tired or something?  He has had a pretty good couple of months there; hasn't he? 
 

Q.   Were you surprised how well you played considering you had three weeks off, 3 and a half weeks?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Well, yes and no.  I guess you know, I am pleasantly surprised.  You can come here -- you come here with confidence that you can play well and you can win, but then you don't-- you don't get out there -- I don't expect it all the time, but I definitely have confidence that I could play well.  My concentration, the mental part of my game has been really well for two days.  That is such a large part of this game.  So that has been the big key and when I am-- when the mental game is on and the putter is on, that seems to be when you play well.  That is what is happening this week. 
 

Q.   What is the reason you played better this year than the previous two, three years? 
 
LARRY MIZE:  The cup got in the way more often - just kidding.  I think trusting my golf swing was a lot of it.  I have been working with David Leadbetter for a little over two years now.  In the off-season I said it is time to start trusting the swing.  I was fiddling and continuing to say, "it was close, it was close." That is not a very good thought when you are out there trying to play golf.  This time I was saying it was not close which is the-- I have worked on my mental game a lot for concentration.  Richard Coop has helped me with that, I think that has been a lot of it and just trying to relax a little more out there and play my game. Play to my strengths and not try and do anything that I can't do.  So I think I have played a little smarter this year, and concentration has been a little better and I have played my game and I haven't worried about what people are thinking.  I have just kind of played my game and did my thing. 
 

Q.   How much actual practice did you have -- after you got the call to come here, how much time did you have to work on your game?
 
LARRY MIZE:  Oh, I had two weeks, but I had to get ready for Christmas too.  I had to get all my Christmas shopping out of the way before I left.  When I get back Sunday night we go to Augusta to visit my parents; then I am home Christmas Eve.  I had to get everything done.  I have got a couple of days in; not a lot of practice.  Maybe three, four days.  I went out and played one day; played a few holes one day.  I hit balls one day, and maybe played a couple of days.  I thought I would do a cram session on Tuesday and Wednesday when I got down here.  Nice little Christmas bonus this tournament is, and I am looking forward to the weekend.  Got a lot of guys playing well and it ought to be an exciting weekend. 
 
 
Q.   Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts....
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT