JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 16, 1993
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY MIZE:  I am real pleased.  I got a lot on my round. I made some really good saves.  Some good up and downs for par and ninth hole I drove it back; had to wedge it out.  Wedged it on; made putt for par there.  Just-- I had a lot of fun.  It was very relaxed and concentration was really good today.  So I am pleased. I'd like to maybe strike the ball a little better and then I could turn around and say I hit a lot of good shots.  I am really pleased with the round.


Q.   What was the last tournament you played?

LARRY MIZE:  Dunlop Phoenix over in Japan three weeks ago.  I was over there for 2 played, Taiheiyo and Dunlop.  I have been home and got the call, and here I am.


Q.   Who are you here for?

LARRY MIZE:  Norman, that is what I was told.  Greg called me.  I said, thank you; I am coming.


Q.   When did they call; do you remember?

LARRY MIZE:  When?


Q.   Yes.

LARRY MIZE:  It was Monday -- November 29, was that a Monday?  I believe it was the-- it was the Monday after Thanksgiving.  I think that may be the 29th because I was doing something that day and my wife got the call. I called and checked with her and she told me.


Q.   She told you you were going?

LARRY MIZE:  Well, yeah, she told me that was it.  I said, what do you think.  She said, I think you ought to go. I said, sounds good to me.  So I am coming.  It wasn't a very hard decision.


Q.   Did she come along with you?

LARRY MIZE:  No, we tried to work it out.  Actually, I really could kick myself.  We were trying to get her to come back the weekend.  My oldest has a play; last day of school and basketball game on Saturday.  Just didn't work out.  But I came down Monday.  She could have come down Monday and gone back today or something.  And we just-- it just never entered our mind.  I know a couple of wives are doing that.  So it is -- I am here-- my caddy and I are here, so we will know next time.


Q.   The conditions affect you, the heat?  A lot of the players were saying that it did affect them.

LARRY MIZE:  It was hottest day we had.  Really didn't seem to affect me.  I always try and drink as much water as I can, but no, the heat didn't bother me, and you know, it was a great day to play golf. Pretty calm.  They asked me up on TV, the wind picked up a little bit on the last few holes, but still, nothing like what I have heard it can blow here.  The 15th hole, the par 3 was playing pretty difficult with a pretty good crosswind, but, you know, still the last 16, 17, 18, the wind wasn't too bad and so it was just really a good day.
It was a little warm, but that is okay.


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT