MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2017
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about how much it meant to be here and play the weekend. 
LARRY MIZE: Well, it's great, but the competitor in me, it's just no fun to go do that, it's no fun to play that poorly. 
I was just having to scramble all day long and it's just exhausting trying to play golf like that around this golf course. So, great to be here, but disappointing in the play today. 

Q. Why do you think it was? The conditions seemed better than the first two days. 
LARRY MIZE: It's me. I just didn't play good. The conditions were great, that's what makes it frustrating. The conditions were good. 
I got off to a start with a double on No. 1. 
Some things were really close, I was close to hitting a good shot on 3, but it comes back down the hill and I make bogey. 
And that's just the way it is here. You got to hit shots just right. If you don't hit them right, you pay the penalty. And I didn't get up‑and‑down or putt as well and I hit it a little worse today. 
So it's just tough. I just didn't play good. I hit too many bad shots, hit some bad shots coming in to finish, bogey, bogey, par, bogey, and you can't do that, especially when you're already short off the tee. So you can't afford to drive it bad like I did and hit some bad shots and if you do, you're going to suffer the consequences. 

Q. Looking ahead for tomorrow, I think you had two birdies all week, none today. Talk about trying to just ‑‑
LARRY MIZE: Well, that was the thing, I came out today I said, let's have some fun and make some birdies. And I just never really gave myself many birdie opportunities. 
I left one short in the jaws on 2.
Hit a good birdie putt on 10.
A pretty good putt on 6.
But just didn't really give myself a whole lot of good looks at it. And if I just ‑‑ I played the par‑5s very poorly this week. I think I'm a couple over on the par‑5s and you just can't do that around here. 
So, hopefully I'll just come out tomorrow and try and have a good round and make some birdies and have some fun and see what happens.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT