MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2017
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LARRY MIZE: I mean it's like the two‑putt on 18, but I would have loved to have made it, because I felt like that would give me a little more cushion. But it's a good two‑putt. 
And from there, I hit a really good second shot in there, I just flew it a little too far, it went up top. It was nice to get it done. 

Q. Just talk about how much it would mean to be able to play the weekend?
LARRY MIZE: It's always great to play the weekend. And on the 30th anniversary, it would be very nice to play the weekend here 30 years later. We'll see, and it's not over yet. I've been here before, and thought I was going to make the cut and didn't. We'll see what happens.

Q. How nervous were you standing over that little second putt on 18 for par?
LARRY MIZE: You know, I felt pretty good, because I told myself, you know what, just knock it in, it's just a putt. And just hit it, don't make it more important than it was.

Q. And then on the second nine it seemed like things were kind of getting away, just a little bit. Talk about calming yourself, making those pars on 17 and 18?
LARRY MIZE: Yeah, I was okay until‑‑ until 15. I just‑‑ it's such a hard third shot with the downslope because you want to make sure you go through it and accelerate and not chunk it. And it just relieves you that you accelerated a little too much. And I did. I knocked it over the green 15 yards. That's just a hard up and down. I got up and down yesterday. It's pretty hard to do it two days in a row. So that really hurt. 
And just never got comfortable on 16 tee. I backed off once, but you've got to hit the shot. And I just made another bad swing there. I just thought, that's all right if I birdied the last two holes, and I didn't. 

Q. Stewart is going to be the first U.S. Mid‑Amateur champion to make the cut. It was quite an adventure out there for him. Did you enjoy watching him play, and did you kind of know what was on the line there?
LARRY MIZE: I didn't know he was the first Mid‑Am, to make it. He played really solid. He had a lot of good shots and made some good putts. I'm excited for him. He's a nice young man, and I'm happy he's going to be here on the weekend. He's in good shape, so we'll see what happened. 

Q. That up and down on 10 looked interesting. 
LARRY MIZE: That was a great putt. His caddie said they kind of worked on it when they played a practice round on Sunday before the tournament. I think they worked on that putt. And I said, well, it paid off. It was a great putt. That is a hard putt and he pulled it right in the center.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT