MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2017
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You played a few of these. How do these conditions rank in your memory?  
LARRY MIZE: They rank up there. I remember it might have been the year I was defending in '88 we had the really tough first round‑‑ I think I shot 79‑‑ and it was real blustery and everything. But this is when this place plays really hard, when you get the conditions like this. The wind swirls, club selection is tough, and you want to be accurate with your irons into these greens and it's hard to be with these conditions.  
And then putting. With the wind, the speed of these greens, the wind will definitely affect it.   
So it's tough conditions out there and it's just getting worse as the day goes on, so I'm happy I'm done.  
   
 Q. If you would have said before the round 74 and go home, would you have taken that?  
LARRY MIZE: It's one of those things, you never want to do that, but it would have been tempting, yeah, because I knew the conditions were going to be tough and 74 is not a bad round out there today.   
   
 Q. How proud are you of that score?  
LARRY MIZE: I'm pleased with it, but the competitor in you knows that I had a few shots there. That bogey at 1, the bogey at 6, and the bogey, my three bogeys, I feel like I could have made pars on those holes. So, but all in all it was a solid round.   
   
 Q. Take us through 16 a little bit for that one birdie.   
LARRY MIZE: Yeah, 16, I was kind of between clubs, I was between a 5‑ and 6‑iron and I decided, a lot of times it's better for me to hit the little soft one. So I choked down a 5 and hit a high soft 5 in there and let the wind knock it down.   
And put it in there about 15 feet underneath the hole. And that putt breaks hard right‑to‑left and I always miss it low and today I didn't, thank goodness.   
   
 Q. Do you think that your tempo helps you on a day like this, that there's just a certain rhythm that you have to keep and it's hard to do that?  
LARRY MIZE: If I can keep it, it helps me.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q. It looked great out there.   
LARRY MIZE: Well that was one of the things driving out here this morning I was just reminding myself, don't forget your good tempo, don't rush it. I'm not a power player, don't worry about hitting it far, just hit it solid and go from there.   
So, I really tried to keep my tempo and rhythm good today. And it will help in the wind, because you can't, you don't want to fight the wind, you want to use the wind.   
   
 Q. Did you feel like the Committee did a good job keeping, getting the greens to be prepared for this?  
LARRY MIZE: I think they did a great job. I think the setup is really good, because, under these conditions, it's just going to be hard.   
But I think that they put the tee up on 4. I think they made the pins accessible. I think they did a really good job. It's hard, don't get me wrong, but I think they did a great job.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT