MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2016
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about your round. 
LARRY MIZE: Nothing special. I made the double at 10. It was kind of a poor swing, and poor chip shot and a poor bunker shot, just combination. It was disappointing about that.
Otherwise I played a little better today, still struggling with my swing. But I guess 74‑‑ it's hard to say. But it was fun to play the weekend. I wish I had had my game in shape to play a little better. But I was pretty happy to just be able to play four days.
Today was a little better, but still got some work to do.

Q. You took advantage of the par‑5s today. 
LARRY MIZE: Yes, I birdied 2. I finally birdied 8. For me to play well around here I need to take advantage of the par‑5s. It's such a mental grind around this golf course. And especially with the wind the first three days. Today was almost like we were on a different golf course, after the first three days. So it was fun to play it in calmer conditions for me. And it was fun to take advantage of the par‑5s. Still too many mistakes for me out there. But happy to post 72 holes. 

Q. What kind of score do you think is out there this afternoon?
LARRY MIZE: You know, I think they did a good job. I mean the greens, preparing for this afternoon, I thought the greens were a little calmer this morning preparing for them to dry out as the day goes on. I think they need to. They can get really crusty in the afternoon, even the little breeze there and just drying out a little bit. So I thought the course‑‑ it's set up where there are some good scores. Sunday is a day where they like to give people a chance to lay.
So I think the harder days are always Friday and Saturday. Thursday and definitely Sunday is set up for some scores. There were some pins you can get at better, the front on 8. 1 is a good pin, you can stick it in there close. 2, the back right. So it's set up more for scoring today, that's why I would have loved to put a red number up, got it under par today, but it's going to be an exciting finish. The course is playing very good.

Q. How far back do you go with Bernhardt and how excited were you watching him yesterday?
LARRY MIZE: Yes, and I'm not pulling against anybody, but I'm pulling for him to play well, obviously. We go back a long way. I don't know how far we go back, but I like my little German buddy, he's a good man. I'll be pulling for him. He's amazing. He dominates the Champions Tour. He's always tough for us to catch out there. Two years ago I think he tied for 8th here. And today, you know, he's got a tall task ahead of him, as he knows. But you never know. 

Q. I know the conditions are one thing, but what is it about his swing mechanics that keeps him going?
LARRY MIZE: In my opinion he's always been a really good ball‑striker. And he is just‑‑ even with his struggles he's been a good putter, and he's got a good short game. So there's really‑‑ I mean I guess at times putting is his weakness, but he doesn't have a lot of weaknesses. And he's as tough mentally as anybody. And he prepares as well as anybody. So I think those things altogether‑‑ and he keeps himself fit. He really‑‑ we're good friends, so I know, he eats well, he works out, and he just does everything the right way. And it pays off. 

Q. What would it mean for the Champions Tour for us to see a guy like that playing like that here?
LARRY MIZE: I think it lets everybody know the Champions Tour is very competitive. I mean guys out there are still good players, and can still play, obviously, with Bernhardt there. I made the cut here this week, and so there's no question, I think it says a lot of the quality of play out here. 

Q. When you sit back tomorrow and look at your own week here, how will you view it?
LARRY MIZE: It will be a combination of disappointment, the way I've played mostly yesterday. I was disappointed. Today was okay. I didn't play great, but yesterday was disappointing the way I played. But overall, I don't know, I just always try and learn from my mistakes. I've got some issues with my swing that I'm starting to feel the problem better, which is a good start.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT