MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Larry Mize
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did it feel to be playing the weekend?
LARRY MIZE:   Nice.   Felt good to play the weekend, obviously.   It wasn't the weekend I wanted, but I just struggled, as good as I putted on the first two days, especially Friday, that's as bad as I've putted on the weekend.   I don't know, tough weekend.   Didn't got any breaks and short game was just pretty poor on the weekend. 

Q.   How was the course setup out for today?
LARRY MIZE:   I think it's set up good.   I think it's going to be an exciting finish.   There are birdie to be made, but you're going to have to play good.   The greens are slick and a lot of them, depending on the wind, if it picks up this afternoon, but it should be for an exciting finish with some birdies, potential eagles, but also some bogeys and other potentials.   So I think it's going to be good. 

Q.   Who would you pick if you had to pick somebody to win?
LARRY MIZE:   I guess I'll pick Matt Kuchar.   I think he was in good form last week, I think he played well yesterday. 
I think last week can be a real positive.   Even though he didn't win, he played solid, he was in there, he's been there. 
I would say Matt's probably a good pick, even though there's so many.   All of them.   But I just, I think Matt's one to watch out for. 

Q.   When did you realize you were playing with Jeff?
LARRY MIZE:   Well once I knew I was the first off, I thought that it might be Jeff, because I know that they put Jeff out.   He's a really good player, nice guy.   So I just figured that much.   I didn't find out for sure until this morning. 

Q.   How far do you and him go back?
LARRY MIZE:   Not real far.   We didn't really know‑‑ I didn't really know Jeff until I met him here at the tournament.   But my memory is not always that good.

Q.   When he was a teenager you weren't living here or were you?
LARRY MIZE:   I'm only about three years older than him, but if I knew him, I'm blank.   I don't remember him.   But I was in and out of here a little bit.   I don't know him. 

Q.   Jeff's wife said you guys had a lot of fun out there chatting.   What were some of the things you talked about?
LARRY MIZE:   He's a great guy.   We talked about family and we talked about the Tournament here and just things in general. 
What were some of the other things we talked about?   I gave him some comments on the golf course that I heard.   I thought it might be good for him.   I don't know how involved he is, but he is involved. 
I gave him some comments about the golf course that the guys have said and just chit chatted around there, just as best I can think of.   A lot of family and that.   I'm blank.   After my round today, I'm mush.

Q.   You said he's a good player, but what did you see in his game that you like?
LARRY MIZE:   Oh, everything.   He hits it good, he's good putter, good chipper, he's just a solid all around player.   I didn't see anything I didn't like, basically.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT