NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 23, 2013
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Udonis, based on what you saw last night, the game going into overtime and the last‑second shot, is this the type of series you now expect? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   We expected that from the jump.   We expected every possession to count.   We didn't expect any 15, 20‑point blowouts.   We expected the game to come down to the last couple of minutes of the fourth quarter.   And that's what we got. 

Q.   When a game ends like that, do you watch the highlights a lot or just whatever? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   No, I don't watch the highlights.   I very rarely go back and watch the highlights.   I try to watch the things we did wrong and the things we need to improve. 
So that's what we really worked on, and that's what we looked at today.

Q.   Udonis, what has David West done that's made him so efficient and effective against you guys all year?   Not just yesterday, he's had pretty good games against you all season. 
UDONIS HASLEM:   Made shots.   We've got to continue to work, continue to try to get him out of his comfort zone and continue to try to contest. 

Q.   Did you do something different in the second half?   Or did he just miss some shots he made in the first half? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   No, we just continued to work at it, continue to compete, continue to try to make him uncomfortable and continue to try to make things tough. 

Q.   Was there a key shot that‑‑ Spo put you back in, the 17 foot jumper there in overtime.   I think the game was tied at the time.   Do you remember‑‑
UDONIS HASLEM:   Uh‑huh. 

Q.   Can you just explain it?   What did you do with that play? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   You know, just tried to stay between him and the basket.   Keep a body on him.   He likes to create space by backing down and using his body.   So I just try to keep a body on him.   When he raised up, I just tried to contest the shot. 

Q.   Udonis, Coach Vogel saidthey watched the film and they saw what they did wrong.   They are confident they can still beat the Heat, which he would say.   What do you do in Game 2 to break that confidence of the Pacers? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   We have things we need to work on and improve too.   Both teams feel like they can improve and do better. 
With that said, both teams should make their proper adjustments going into the next game, and may the best team win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT