NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 15, 2013
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You guys win one game, lose one, what do you make of it?   Certainly you want to win two in a row.   
UDONIS HASLEM:   Can't really look back on what's been going on in the past.   All we can try to do is focus on the future.   Our next task at hand is tomorrow.   And we're focused on trying to get the game tomorrow.   We would like to get more than one in a row or two or three, whatever, of course.   That's always not necessarily the case.   
So we make adjustments and we move on and we play the next game.   
   
 Q.   You've done varying roles, but how did your approach change?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   No change.   My role is still going to be the same.   Mentally I still prepare the same way.   I come out and do what I have to do before the game, I shoot my shots, I get my stretches in.   When I get in the game I just play basketball.   
   
 Q.   UD, is there a natural letdown when you know that no matter what happens you guys know you're going back home to play in American Airlines Arena?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   We're not worried about that.   One game at a time.   We're not thinking about Miami.   We're thinking about the next game in San Antonio and that's all we're focused on.   
   
 Q.   Udonis, (Indiscernible) played out last time aggressively.   It could be a double‑edged sword.   Are you ready to take this risk again in the next game?   It was really aggressive.   On the other hand, your D could be broken down easily if they grab the ball‑‑  
UDONIS HASLEM:   I don't think that was the case.   I think our D was great.   I think we flew around.   We played with a lot of energy.   We played with a lot of effort.   I don't think we exposed ourselves a lot.   That's a matter of opinion, I guess.   In my opinion, I think we played great.   We played with a lot of energy.   We played with a lot of effort.   
   
 Q.   Game 5 you're tied 2‑2.   For which team is it more critical, you or them?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   I don't know.   Both teams got to play with a sense of desperation, I think.   Nobody can go out there and really take it easy.   I think both teams have to play like it's Game 7, in my opinion.   Every game from here on out has to be played like a Game 7 intensity‑wise.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT