NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 21, 2011
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   UDONIS HASLEM: A lot involved in the process to get back to this point. Couldn't have turned out any better. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)
UDONIS HASLEM: I'm sure it's going to be that. I'm sure a lot of people are going to be happy to see me out there. And I appreciate it. I don't want to think too much about it. I want to focus on my team and winning Game 3. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)
 UDONIS HASLEM: It gives us another option. It's a little tougher for the defense to defend us. Can take advantage of, you know, guys helping on LeBron and helping on D-Wade. I can take advantage on them digging down on Chris, able to get the open shot. It gives us another option offensively and makes us a little tougher to guard. 

 Q. And you and he work together defensively. 
 UDONIS HASLEM: Those are the things we've been working on the past few days, me and Chris working together. Obviously one of us will have to be a four and the other will be the five. Defensively it really doesn't matter. Offensively I want to make sure he's comfortable out there, and I just work around him. 

 Q. How much did the Bulls hurt you guys (Indiscernible) in Game 1, the first three minutes of Game 2? Is that your primary focus when you step on the floor? 
 UDONIS HASLEM: I think so. I wasn't focused on anything but helping my team on the boards and defend. I didn't imagine myself scoring 13 points or getting any dunks or anything like that. That's going to be my focus on Game 3, hit the boards and defend and let everything else take care of itself. 

 Q. Is it almost easier for you to score when you're so focused on defense and rebounding? 
 UDONIS HASLEM: I think so. I think when you are focused on scoring, that's when you make it tough on yourself. When you focus on everything, you let the game come to you. That's what I did. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 UDONIS HASLEM: Man, this is -- I've always been able to jump, man. You guys -- I don't know. I guess you guys haven't seen me jump in a while. To get back to that point, it's been a lot of hard work. I've been in the weight room every day, basically, six days a week. Only off one day. It's been like three days upper body, three days lower body. It's been hard. I've never dedicated so much time to the weight room. 
 It's a tribute to Bill. And even when the guys were out of town, I still had to come in and work out. It was a long, long, long process. 

 Q. What was the most painful, I guess, workout routine you went through during your rehabilitation? 
 UDONIS HASLEM: My first day back running. When I got the boot off. My first day back running was pretty tough. The next day I was pretty sore. I think I had to take three or four days off. It was pretty painful. I continued to do the work with it, be patient with it and it got better and better. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)
UDONIS HASLEM: We had a day off, everybody did. Yesterday I rested a little bit. Today I feel good. I feel great. Tomorrow I'm expecting the same thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT