NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 20, 2011
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you feel?   
 UDONIS HASLEM: I feel fine. Good day. I had an opportunity to rest again, and I'll be right back at it tomorrow getting ready for Game 3.   
  
  Q. This is the only extended gap, though. Are you ready to go every other day?   
 UDONIS HASLEM: Yes, if there was a game today, I would be ready.   
  
  Q. How do you develop a chemistry -- a lot of these guys you hadn't played with except a couple of times. How about chemistry from the sidelines?   
 UDONIS HASLEM: There was a couple of things I felt I could improve on. I watched the film with Dwyane and (Indiscernible) they pointed out to me things that I can improve on. Overall chemistry is fine. I think playing with CB is something I haven't had much time to do. It just kind of falls in line.   
  
  Q. What did it mean to play with Mike Miller --  
 UDONIS HASLEM: We talked about it. Part of the reason we came here together. I've been wanting to have an opportunity to play with Mike since college. We were always joking. Never thought it would come about. It was great. It was just like old times. I was going down the lane, he hit me for a dunk. It was like college.   
  
  Q. Pretty much pressure on you guys to perform.   
 UDONIS HASLEM: The stakes are high, obviously. I was kind of -- me actually stepping back on the court, you don't want to reinvent the wheel right now. We have had a formula that worked for us. We kind of had to stick to that, and coach has had to slide me in whenever he could.   
 I think I ended up playing pretty well. And he just gave me a couple more minutes than expected.  
  
  Q. Does experience matter? You guys have a lot of experience in the Conference Finals and beyond. Their team doesn't, really. How much does experience count?   
 UDONIS HASLEM: No, I don't think that matters. I don't think it gives us an edge of any sort. They're the best team in the league this year. MVP Derrick Rose, well-deserved. Joakim Noah, Carlos Boozer. They have a great cast of guys. We have our hands full no matter how much experience we have.   
  
  Q. Udonis, how much can you sort of duplicate the effort, energy-wise and physically, that you gave the other night?   
 UDONIS HASLEM: I don't see why I can't. I'm going to get out there and lay it on the line. It's never about shots going into the game for me. It's all about rebounding and defense. If shots come, they come. I was fortunate enough to be the recipient of a couple of open shots.   
  
  Q. They say defense wins championships. It seems whoever wins this Eastern Conference Championship, it's going to come to that. Whoever takes advantages of the breaks, whoever comes up with the stops, that's what it seems like throughout the first two games.   
 UDONIS HASLEM: Yeah. I don't think anybody is going to run away with any game. It's not going to be a 23-point game every night. Every night is going to be a grind-it-out night. You know, we have to anticipate the next game being like that in Game 3.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT