NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 29, 2006
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You only had two points the first couple of games, now you got ten.  What's been the difference the last couple games? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  Just trying to be more aggressive.  First time I shot for a lot of jump shots and nothing really went in.  You try to get a rhythm and just shoot a jumper.  I tried to be more aggressive every game, and also tonight I got to the free throw line. 
 Q.  What does that do to the rest of the team when Dwyane is on a roll like that, energize everybody else? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  Yeah, he's our guy.  We understand that.  We're going to go to him and Shaq early.  It makes our job a lot easier as far as making shots that we don't get so much attention offensively. 
 Q.  What is it going to take for you guys to go up to Auburn Hills and close out? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  Everything we got.  We understand what type of situation we're going into.  They're a veteran team, obviously returning champions.  We're going to come out fighting, going to be a full court fight, and we've got to understand that. 
 Q.  Did any of your teammates talk to you after the first couple of games, keep your head up, give you advice, anything like that? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  Yeah, nobody got down on me.  We've all been through ups and downs this season.  They get behind me 100 percent, told me, "keep fighting."  You've got to keep making shots, I tried to defend, keep rebounding and make myself as useful as possible. 
 Q.  I know you guys were confident in winning the series, but did you think that you would be in this position after four games, up 3-1? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  We never really looked forward to being up 3-1 in this position.  We just thought we'd take it one game at a time.  Every game go out there and give maximum effort and just leave everything out on the court and see where we go from there.  We've done that, and we've got the series 3-1 right now. 
 Q.  Can you also talk about what Posey did for you guys, especially his defense on Prince and a couple big threes? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  He's been our top perimeter defender all season.  From holding down Vince, a little bit, and we pride ourselves on team defense.  When we've got a guy on the other team who's a great scorer, we try to put five guys on that guy.  When we've got Sheed, we try to make Tayshaun drive right instead of left.  We try to play defense, we don't just leave one guy out there by himself. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT