NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 26, 2006
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Are you pleased with the rest of your game? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  I mean, I've been defending the rebounding with the opportunities I get to be in the game.  Besides that, I've been doing everything else I've been asked to do. 
 Q.  It seems like the team that had the most urgency was the one that was able to jump off on that lead.  What is the key for you?  What do you need to do at the beginning of games to kind of impose your will on the game? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  We've got to come out with a lot more energy.  That's all we've got to do.  Shots are going to fall, shots are not going to fall, but we've got to control our energy, that's something we can control. 
 Q.  I was wondering in the back of your mind did you feel we got what we needed and then get complacent? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  No, we weren't complacent at all.  We wanted to try to get the next win.  We couldn't get it, but we'll come back out and try to get one tomorrow. 
 Q.  Do you think it's just mostly about imposing your will? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  I think so.  I think the team that has jumped out so far these two games has sustained it and kept the lead to win the game.  Obviously I think it's important to get off to a good start. 
 Q.  In Game 2 of Cleveland, the Pistons had a hard time closing them out.  Again, they had the same problem with you and they didn't quite get it back for three or four games.  Do you think that's possible in this situation or do you think the circumstances are different? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  Different team, different circumstances.  We play a different style than Cleveland.  You know, we definitely don't want to get in a situation where we have to try to come back or when we put pressure on them to try to close us out.  If possible, we want to try to lead from beginning to end. 
 Q.  I was over at their hotel today, and they admitted they want to shut everybody else down.  They know that Shaq and Wade are going to get their points.  What do you have to do to be more aggressive?  I'm talking about the guys outside of Shaq and Dwyane. 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  We've got to make shots.  I haven't been shooting well.  I can't say they've shut me down, I just haven't made shots, that's the bottom line. 
 Q.  You didn't think they did anything differently against you or the other teammates? 
 UDONIS HASLEM:  No, not at all. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT