NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 12, 2013
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When the stars are playing that way, will other guys step up and say something?   You know they want it as much as anyone, but when you see one of your leaders maybe not doing it, is there enough in that locker room to step up and say, hey, harder, faster, stronger?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   Yeah, we got enough guys.   We got enough veteran leadership.   We have championship‑caliber guys.   We have enough of everything.   There should be no letdown in any area on this team.   
   
 Q.   What bothered you most about the effort?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   We didn't give the second, we didn't give it the third, we didn't give it the fourth effort mentally.   
   
 Q.   Is there any explanation at this time?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   There ain't no explanation.   There ain't no excuses.   We go on to the next game and we put it behind us and focus on the next task at hand.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the importance of the intensity on the defensive end.   Are there other adjustments‑‑  
UDONIS HASLEM:   No.   We have to play like we did Game 2.   We've proven we can do a lot of things.   We can keep Tony Parker out of the paint, we can close out on the shooters.   We can rebound the ball.   We've proven all those things.   We can't halfway do it.   We can't mess around with these guys.   We have to let it out for 48 minutes.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the energy factor.   How you guys feel energy‑wise as far as late into the season and down to the wire.   
UDONIS HASLEM:   We feel fine.   We feel fine.   There's no excuses.   Energy.   Mentally we're fine.   Physically we're fine.   We're at obviously the finish line.   There's no reason, no excuses.   
   
 Q.   What is your mental inspiration, psychological disposition in a time in a loss.   How do you inspire yourself and the team to rebound from a situation like this?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   You move forward.   We have veteran guys, we have veteran leadership.   We've been proven in everything possible.   We've been able to figure things out.   We'll figure this out as well.   
   
 Q.   How much does preparation change if Tony can't go?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   I don't know that.   I have no idea of anything that's going on with Tony Parker right now.   I'm kind of focused on the Heat.   Whatever goes on in their locker room, that's on their end.   I'm focused on what goes on with the Heat.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how valuable it is to be in the second year of the league and have the opportunity to go to The Finals two straight years in a row?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   It's awesome.   To be your second year in the league and have the opportunity to go to The Finals two years in a row.   You have people that's been in the league ten, 12, 13 years and never have an opportunity or a chance to experience this Finals atmosphere.   I hope he doesn't take it for granted, which I know he doesn't.   
He's a very intelligent kid.   One day he'll learn from it.   And one day he'll have a couple of young ones under his belt, and he can talk about this experience or help them get to this point in their career.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT