NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 7, 2013
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  UDONIS HASLEM:   I felt like we played really well.   We outrebounded them.   They shot about 41% from the field.   I think we had about nine turnovers, which is not a large amount of turnovers.   I know I think it just comes down to we had a couple of empty possessions in the fourth quarter, and obviously Tony Parker made a great shot down the stretch.   But I wasn't overly disappointed with our effort and the way we played.   
   
 Q.   Matt (Bonner) calls you the toughest guy that he's ever known.   Do you ever mix it up with him in practice real good or in a game?   Any incidents or anything like that?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   We banged a little bit.   But obviously he stayed on the perimeter and I was down low.   We banged a little bit.   If I'm the toughest guy he knows, then he's definitely the smartest guy I know.   If I'm not mistaken, he actually dropped a class because he got a B, which I would have gave my left arm for a B.   And he dropped the class for a B.   I thought he was nuts.   
   
 Q.   He didn't tutor you at all?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   No.   It was a funny story.   I said I was joking with him.   I said Matt, I got‑‑ I can't remember what class it was.   And I said I'm going to sit by you and I'm going to look at your paper.   He said, no, you're not, but I'll help you study.   I was like, get the hell out of here.   I can study on my own.   I don't need you to study.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of Tony Parker, you played in France, from my understanding you were a big fan of taking French classes.   
UDONIS HASLEM:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   I can't imagine you trying to speak French.   How did you deal with that?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   I mean, it was just part of my job.   Obviously when I signed my contract, part of my job was having to take French classes.   I think I lasted about a week and a half, and I told the guys I wasn't going back to French class.   If they wanted to send me home they could.   Fortunately I was leading the team with scoring and rebounding.   We were going pretty well.   So they elected to keep me.         
   
 Q.   What about learning to drive a stick shift out there?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   I tore up two cars out there.   It's crazy.   It was my first time driving a stick.   I actually got in a car accident.   The guy got out of the car.   He was speaking French and I was speaking English.   We weren't getting anywhere, so I left the scene.   I was actually on my way back to practice.   The accident happened about five minutes away from the arena where we practiced.   I got in an accident.   It was totally my fault.   He got out and I got out.   He was speaking French and I was speaking English.   It was like the hell with this.   The car had the team's name on it.   I knew he would know where to find me.   I just left the scene and went to practice.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible).  
UDONIS HASLEM:   Pop does a great job with those guy's minutes.   Giving them nights off.   From what I hear, he manages their practicing times and different things like that.   It's a combination of a lot of things that has allowed him to have the career he's had over the long period of time he has had.   
   
 Q.   You guys are really energized by creating turnovers.   What makes it so tough facing the Spurs to get those turnovers?   
UDONIS HASLEM:   Veteran coach, veteran team.   They stick to their system.   They don't get out of themselves.   They all have their roles.   They all play within their limitations.   They all play within themselves.   And they get shots up at the basket.   They're disciplined.   Very disciplined.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT