NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 5, 2013
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Udonis, you have had such a great history with D‑Wade.   He had some struggles this year.   How gratifying was it for you to see what he did in Game 7? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   I was happy for him.   I was very happy.   I told him before the game, what was that after Game 4, Game 5, something like that, if we quit, if we gave in every time the games got tough, every one of us, we wouldn't be here.   Not saying he was going to quit.   I wanted to remind him we both have had tough times on and off the court.   And that's what made us who we are. 
I just told him to keep pushing forward.   I knew he would have a breakthrough eventually.   I told him no matter how he feels, 100%, or 50%, when a team prepares for the Miami Heat, they have to prepare for Dwyane Wade.   That alone you help the team out. 

Q.   You never sought accolades.   What do you think when your teammates say or Erik says you are the true warrior of this team, no matter what situation you are put in? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   I just do my job.   Obviously not scoring a lot of points.   My job is not to be a scoring threat as it was in the past.   My job is sometimes rebounding, sometimes taking charges.   Sometimes putting a lot of energy and make plays with my emotion.   That's pretty much whatever Coach asks me to do.   When I have an opportunity to shoot the ball and I'm open, I shoot it with confidence. 
With offense my job pretty much changes every night. 

Q.   Much is made of the games they didn't bring Tim Duncan, Manu and Tony Parker when you played in the regular season.   How do you think that affects the series? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   I don't think it will affect the series at all.   We're both veteran teams.   We've both seen each other play.   Regardless if we played against each other this year.   We've played each other in the past. 
Obviously we've gotten better.   They've gotten better.   Both teams pretty much know each other well.   We go out and it's going to come down to execution, obviously.   And which team makes the least mistakes. 

Q.   Do you think it was a calculating move by Pop?   Are you looking forward to this moment? 
UDONIS HASLEM:   I don't know.   Unless he's a prophet.   I can't say.   He is a great coach.   Maybe he did have that trick in the bag, or whatever. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT