NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 31, 2013
Udonis Haslem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How does it feel knowing that you played probably one of the best games throughout the entire series?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   It's just good to contribute.   That's what it's all about.   We have a brotherhood here.   On different nights it's going to be different guys asked to step up.   Last night once again it was my opportunity to step up and contribute any way I can to help us get a victory.   
   
 Q.   You've been on both sides of the coin.   When you're a team that faces elimination, talk about the sense of urgency you're going to face with the Pacers that they will ratchet it up tomorrow.   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   They are going to give everything they have.   It's nothing to hold back for.   It's nothing to rest for.   There's nothing to heal injuries for.   
    It's all or nothing coming into tomorrow night.   So we have to understand that that's a very dangerous team we're going to be facing tomorrow in Indiana.   
   
 Q.   When opposing players start jawing like they were doing last night, how much does that inspire you guys, fuel your fire?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   You know, it's part of the game.   You don't let it overwhelm you to the effect where you can't go out and do your job and you forget why you're out there on the court and the task at hand.   
    It's expected.   Playoff series, Eastern Conference Finals, a lot of alpha males on the floor.   Every now and then you're going to bump heads and have a few disagreements out there.   
   
 Q.   With Dwyane not 100%, what does LeBron have to do to make up for some of the things Wade can't do?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   He does everything for us.   He provides scoring, he is the definition of a two‑way player.   Both sides of the floor he gets it done.   He gets in there and helps us on the boards.   He creates (Indiscernible) for us offensively, he makes plays, gets guys shots, he takes advantage of his opportunities to score.   It's nothing that he really doesn't do for us that he really can't do.   
    Continue to say that I played basketball all my life.   I've seen a lot of players, and he's in a class by himself when it comes to the best basketball player I've ever seen.   
   
 Q.   Do you think he tries to do some more knowing D‑Wade and knowing Chris Bosh has to battle with Hibbert and maybe has to do more?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   I mean, he's an intelligent player.   He's a very, very intelligent player, aside from the fact that he's so gifted.   He's intelligent.   I think that's what makes him so special.   He knows when it's time to step up and make plays and when it's time to get other guys involved and contribute in other ways.   
   
 Q.   You've been around D‑Wade longer than anybody.   How hard do you think this has been for him?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   It's difficult.   Just injuries.   I've been in that situation before where you're injured and you can't really play the way you want to play.   But no matter what the situation is physically, he gives us everything he has, and that's all we can ask.   Regardless of if he's 70%, 50%, 60%, the other team, the opposing team, you still have to prepare for Dwyane Wade on the floor.   Just that preparation that you have to do for Dwyane helps out our other guys that go out there.   
   
 Q.   I know you guys talked about just about everything, your personal lives and your professional lives.   When he's going through something like this, do you go there with him?   Or do you have to kind of like tiptoe around the topic?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   No, we talk.   We talk about everything.   It's not tiptoeing around the topic.   We talk about everything.   It's not‑‑ we're brothers.   We can be honest and open with one another.   
    I'm his biggest fan.   I know he's hurting.   All I can ask him to do is continue to give us everything he has.   And everybody else has to chip in the rest.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel is going to be the key to your success in closing the series?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   We have to take their punches early and we have to come back with a few punches of our own.   I understand they're going to come back with a lot of energy, a lot of emotions right from the jump.   And we have to be ready.   
    We can't warm up.   We can't kind of work our way into the game.   We have to be ready as soon as the ball is jumped.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to be looking to shut any players down specifically?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   No, just do our jobs.   Fly around, obviously, not give them nothing easy.   Rotate, sink, and finish possessions with rebounds.   
   
 Q.   Do you embrace the challenge when guys dare you to beat them, dare you to shoot?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   I don't pay them no mind.   I get to my spots, I let my guards create opportunities for me, and I do what I got to do.   
   
 Q.   You seem to be typically low‑key.   But the emotions got in the game and you and David West got into it.   Is it just the emotions of the game that got to you?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   I saw Rio and David West get into it, and it didn't look like a fair situation for Rio.   So I just came in and had his back.   Like I said, we're brothers.   If I see one of my brothers in trouble, I get his back.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of after Game 3, Coach Vogel saying I don't know if he's going to shoot 8 of 9 again.   If he does, it's going to be a long series.   Then you shoot exactly 8 of 9.   Not 7 of 8.   8 of 9.   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   I didn't even know he said that.   
   
 Q.   Not really?   
    UDONIS HASLEM:   No.   I really don't keep up with the media or whatever.   Vogel's opinion, you know.   Hey, go on to the next game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT