ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 3, 2011
Inga Abitova
Galina Bogomolova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What are your goals for Sunday's race?   
 INGA ABITOVA: Naturally anyone who signs up for the marathon in the elite group is hoping to win the marathon, but, of course, we put a lot of hard work into this, and we'd certainly like to place well, and place right near the top.  
 GALINA BOGOMOLOVA: I agree with Inga. Everyone who comes to the marathon comes here to win. How it works out, that's not always in your hands, but we've prepared well.   
 We've prepared hard and we're ready to win.  
  
  Q. This year is there any more pressure on them to run a fast time considering there's Olympic selection for Russia that still needs to happen?   
 INGA ABITOVA: Naturally, yes, of course.   
 GALINA BOGOMOLOVA: I agree, yes.  
  
  Q. With that in mind, did you change anything in your preparation to not only position yourselves to contend for a title here, but to also run an impressive time?   
 INGA ABITOVA: You don't always have to reinvent the wheel. Naturally there were some changes. I don't really get into the changes as much. I basically do what my trainer tells me to do. Obviously there is a lot of pressure on him as well to make sure that his athlete gets on the Olympic team, and so I basically follow what he tells me to do, and do my best.  
 GALINA BOGOMOLOVA: I've done a lot of work. I've done everything I can to show a good time, and to get to that Olympic team. I think we're very ready with the training, and done a lot to get to that point.  
  
  Q. You're going to get the time you want, you're going to need a fast race. Are you going to make sure that happens?   
 GALINA BOGOMOLOVA: Of course, naturally.  
  
  Q. I'm curious if either of you watched the Chicago Marathon, and maybe can you give me your reaction to the time that Shabanova ran there?   
 INGA ABITOVA: Naturally it was a great result, and something for us to aspire to. We're a little envious of the result, but that certainly sets us up and gives us something to really shoot for.   
 GALINA BOGOMOLOVA: We're good friends, and I've seen her train. I wasn't surprised at all by the fast time that she put in. I was very happy for her, and we're really good friends and I'm very impressed, but not surprised.  
  
  Q. What time do you think you will need to run to make that Olympic team?   
 INGA ABITOVA: I would say 2:24. If in the fall or if in the spring maybe a little faster.   
 GALINA BOGOMOLOVA: Yeah, probably about that, 2:20, 2:22, 2:24, somewhere in that neighborhood.  
  
  Q. Will you both have to run a spring marathon? When does the Russian team get selected?   
 GALINA BOGOMOLOVA: I believe it's up to April 1st, from October 1st to April 1st.  
 INGA ABITOVA: Yes, any A level competition during that time is counted. Up to April 1st, from October 1st through April 1st.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT