U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2018
Su-Hyun Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Very nice move up the leaderboard today.  
SU-HYUN OH: Thank you.   
 Q.  What did you do best?  
SU-HYUN OH: Definitely just getting around the golf course.  Like nothing was outstanding.  I putted quite well today.  Yesterday I had a 3-putt.  I think it's special, kind of hung in there and just took my chances well.  Yeah, just not a lot of mistakes.   
 Q.  Does your finish last week at Volvik give you confidence coming into this week?  
SU-HYUN OH: Yeah, for sure.  I've kind of been playing a little bit better since San Francisco so it's just been like gradually a little bit getting better.   
 Q.  Were you working on anything, maybe --  
SU-HYUN OH: Worked on everything, yeah.  I really just worked on everything, like there was not one thing that I didn't work on but just didn't feel like it was so far off but just little things here and there and shaping up nicely.   
 Q.  How about Sarah Jane's score today?  
SU-HYUN OH: I know.  We were looking at the leaderboard saying Sarah is very greedy, just taking all the birdies.  But I mean it's definitely -- like if you hit your irons well because the course is soft, so if you can get access to the pins and trust that you have good numbers, it's definitely you can go low but my -- you know, I wasn't hitting my irons like amazing but wasn't that far off, either.  So, it's definitely out there, just -- yeah.  I mean Sarah is playing really well.   
 Q.  With the move you made today, is your approach tomorrow just be more aggressive or just to kind of play it?  
SU-HYUN OH: I have to see how I feel in the day.  If I have a good number, I'll go for it.  If not, I won't, I guess.  Really just see how it feels, see how the course is playing.  I don't know if it's going to rain this afternoon or not, but yeah, just see what numbers I get.  Not to get ahead of myself.   
 Q.  When did you first come on property, did you get here Monday?  
SU-HYUN OH: I got here Monday afternoon.  My clubs didn't come so I only got to play two holes.  I played 14 and 15.  I thought I could get 14 and 18.   
 Q.  Are you in a spot in your career where you're comfortable being near the top of the lead, especially in a Major?  
SU-HYUN OH: I don't feel uncomfortable.  I don't know.  Probably see how I feel tomorrow but I don't feel uncomfortable.  I just feel like it's just, you know, just golf.  Maybe we'll have a little more crowd hopefully tomorrow and maybe the atmosphere will be a bit different but just part of it.   
 Q.  How has the course changed from when you got two holes in on Monday to yesterday and then today?  
SU-HYUN OH: Not much.  I think we're just careful to see if there's a bit of mud on the ball or not, so always trying to check that because that will have a lot of effect.   
It's weird because it's playing longer because it's so soft but so hot so the irons are going really far.  So, it's just hard to guess and it swirls a lot within the trees so it's just really difficult clubbing, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT