WNBA FINALS: SHOCK v SILVER STARS
October 3, 2008
Dan Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COACH DAN HUGHES: Well, you look at the game and I thought from the standpoint of their beginning, you know, we were able to deal with it in the game. 
 But it took a lot of energy out of us, you know. I mean, we've had some very typical finishes to this, but not too many typical beginnings that we had in the game. Obviously the initial part put us in a situation where we exerted a lot of energy. And we did a great job getting back; did an absolutely great job. 
 The most problematic thing for us probably was points in the paint. Along with I thought Katie Smith made some timely plays for them, as she will do. 
 But points in the paint probably stands out in my mind. We didn't get a lot done in there. Settled sometimes for jump shots in situations and they got a lot more done inside there. 
 But, you know, it's a tough loss. But one this is a very resilient group. And stings but it's not going to put us down.

 Q. You mentioned the slow start, for the second straight game, what do you do to resolve that issue?
 COACH DAN HUGHES: Well, I think there's a couple things, to be honest with you. 
 I think it's a matter of us -- you know, it's funny, you'll watch when players unaggressive and unassertive and it's not always that they don't want to. Sometimes it's more analytical, you know. A thought process that overrides them. I mean, the first thing I did when I found a change in us was we simplified what we were doing, got more basic in our attack and all of a sudden started playing rather than thinking. 
 So I think I've got to ask less of them from the standpoint of schemes and different things like that. Get a little bit closer to who we are. The and I think all of a sudden things will be a little more aggressive. Then you tend to create that flow. 
 But, you know, give Detroit credit in a couple ways. I thought they came out strong. They came out strong, made shots, did things, put pressure back on us. And I think we answered. 
 But with the present rotation I have, it's just -- it has been problematic to spread the floor and defend quite like in key points of the game as you look over the whole game as we have or would like to. And we've got to solve a little bit of that issue between now and Sunday.

 Q. You mentioned the fact that you were unable to spread the offense. You had trouble shooting three-pointers. Is that basically the main reason why you couldn't go down low, they were collapsing on you?
 COACH DAN HUGHES: Well we missed shots too. I'm looking here, we took a few at that point. You know, I mean, we -- I thought Becky got it going late. But simple reality is a lot of times, she gathers a lot of attention. 
 The three, we're not the best shooting three team, but if you look in comparison between our ability to defend it and shoot it, it is a key factor in our play. And they've done a good job at this point of us not being able to create that as part of our offensive flow. 
 And you know, part of it is I think, you know, the loss of Wade has been a void for us in a lot of situations. Now we've got to find a different person to complement Becky when they spread the floor. 
 I thought Vicki Johnson played a good basketball game and we may have to look there. But we've got to spread the floor and space it a little better then bring that element into it to get the offensive flow that we normally played with.

 Q. Experience is kind of a cliché thing in this series, but is it one of these things where you have to go through these experiences to eventually overcome them in the Finals? Because this is your first Finals?
 COACH DAN HUGHES: No I don't think that at all. I mean, I'm not a rocket scientist but I think it's about playing good basketball. We haven't played good enough basketball yet. But I will guarantee you this: We're open-minded about the future. 
 But we just haven't played good enough basketball yet and they have. We're not real good on excuses here, and we've won enough that we take ownership. 
 We will be open minded about what game three will bring. And give a nod to them as to what they've done to this point.
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, coach.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT