WNBA FINALS: SHOCK v SILVER STARS
October 1, 2008
Dan Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAN HUGHES: Well, I thought, you look at the game, I thought the second quarter gave them separation that we had to play to. I thought we started well. I honestly thought we ended well. But the second quarter put a separation factor and I thought they did a great job of creating penetration and finding open shots that we didn't put a lot of pressure on.   
 I thought Katie Smith got it going well, but Franklin was especially troublesome to us in that situation. I love the fact my team made a good comeback. I think we learned some things in this basketball game. Obviously didn't learn enough. But I do think as the game transitioned, you know, we were more in a flow that I hoped we would create.   
  
  Q. With you being down with your guard situation, just how tough did that make it, especially as much pressure as they could put on?  
 DAN HUGHES: A couple things happened. The congestion on Becky, they had massive congestion in that situation.   
 A lot of times, we bring another shooter in that situation to aid Becky. You also bring another primary ball handler that allows Becky to play in situations off the ball more in regard to that. I thought VJ did a great job. She's a little banged up as you can see. But she played a good game.   
 You know, it will be helpful to us to add one more guard to our rotation in that situation so we can spread the floor a little bit and move the basketball, especially with Becky, two situations where we bring it to her as opposed to her having to create a play.  
 They gave her a lot of attention and did a good job of bringing multiple people to it in situations, so we will have to take a look at that and hopefully make some adjustments in Game 2.   
  
  Q. I guess going into the game worrying about Smith and Deanna Nolan, and how much did their big players hurt you as far as maybe game plan-wise?   
 DAN HUGHES: We knew they were good. That was obvious. I thought they established Braxton in the first half and we did good job as the game went on.   
 Taj McWilliams-Franklin had great finishes and she made shots. To her credit, she made shots. I think that was the difference-maker. I thought her ability to finish, especially from the face-up position, really spread our defense out a little bit.   
  
  Q. Does the lack of backcourt depth worry you with the injuries you are having right now?  
 DAN HUGHES: Well, I don't know if it worries me. I think we've got to make some adjustments; if, in fact, we are going to play with a seven-player rotation. We may have to go look at bringing another player in and playing bigger in some situations, something we have not done all year. You're really not anxious to experiment in the WNBA finals. But the simple reality of having two guards out and having Vickie in a situation where we have to get her in and out a little bit, we have to look at maybe some personnel situations that might help us counter act that and hopefully some healing takes place in the next couple of days.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT