WNBA FINALS: MYSTICS VS STORM
September 7, 2018
Dan Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Storm - 89, Mystics - 76
DAN HUGHES: Well, I thought our defense helped our offense today in a lot of ways.  We were able to create opportunities to play in transition as well as in the half court.  It was one of those days we shot the ball well and Washington didn't.  That's going to happen in regard to it.  But any time you're at home and you get a lead, that's something you want to have.  So obviously pleased to get out of the gate and win Game 1.
Q. Dan, what were you able to do defensively a little bit to bother Elena in particular?
DAN HUGHES: I don't know if we really bothered her.  It was one of those days they didn't shoot the ball well.  I mean, there was a couple times I turned to the bench and I just kind of said, well, we dodged a bullet there in regard to it.  Now, I do think our focus was good.  I think our rotations were strong.  We were doing that.  But it was one of those days that they just kind of missed some looks that they probably won't miss Game 2 at that point.  Whenever we can rebound well, we do become a better basketball team.  We are able to really play in transition, which is one of the better things we do, as well as half court.
Q. What were you able to do early?  I think they had eight turnovers the first 11, 12 minutes of the game.
DAN HUGHES: Well, just sped them up a little bit to be honest with you, made them play a little faster.  They're such a good team.  When they're able to get to their spots and they move the ball, there's a great beauty to how they play, and we just tried to take away some of those kind of rhythm catches where the ball moves from side to side because they're exceptional at that, and I thought we did a good job of being aggressive, forcing it out a little bit, maybe a deflection here or there.  So it helped them not quite get the rhythm that they wanted.
Q. The other night in Game 5, Jewell kind of told you to keep her on the bench when Sammy was playing so well.  Tonight Jewell comes out and has a fabulous game.  Talk about her performance tonight and what you saw from her.
DAN HUGHES: Well, it's amazing how many times when you're thinking about and you're unselfish like she was in Game 5 how you are rewarded the next time, especially a good player.  I mean, there's a lot of microscopes, people looking and digesting where we are right now.  If you watched Jewell all year, you knew it's just a matter of time that she's going to impact the game.  But what has happened to Jewell Loyd, the message that I received this year, she's doing things across the team, not just scoring.  She's rebounding, assisting.  From a defensive standpoint, she's much, much more a pivotal part of what we do.  So there's a totality to it.  As long as she's bringing those other things out, I have absolutely no doubt that that is there, that the offense is also going to come along with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT