WNBA FINALS: SHOCK v SILVER STARS
October 5, 2008
Dan Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COACH DAN HUGHES: Well, you've got to give Detroit credit. I thought we played a pretty good basketball game through about two and a half, three quarters. I thought their physicalness, especially, showed through in the fourth quarter in lot of ways. But they tested us inside and out. They tested us offensively and defensively. So, you know, my hat's off to them. 
 You know, I think Detroit deserves a lot of credit for I think, playing the brand of basketball that we saw and had to deal with. 

 Q. In the same way Houston made a spark when the league got underway, are they the new standard now in the league with three titles in six years and a couple also-rans? 
 COACH DAN HUGHES: You have to look at the reality, but they have been here, what, three straight years at this point? I don't know if they have had the consistency you saw early, but the simple reality is that they are playing at that level. And you have to tip your hat to them. 

 Q. Do you feel like you guys have left something on the table, when Detroit, you were doing a really good job defensively but you only took a four-point lead into the half?
 COACH DAN HUGHES: Yeah, that's a good point. I thought they were playing pretty well, and we're shooting the basketball well. What happened today is we defended at a much higher level but put pressure on the rebounding area and didn't answer that call. I thought they got on the glass, and I tell you, they used the 3 well. That's always been a separation factor for my basketball team. 
 You know, we were not the best three-point shooting team. We had absorbed some injuries in that area, but we were a good one. We always defended the 3 well but we had trouble, and then today with Katie, Hornbuckle, Deanna Nolan hit some. That's a factor where we separated from teams, and they did a good job of answering that call and, in fact, kind of dominating that area. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT