AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS VS ASTROS
October 9, 2019
Blake Snell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After coming out of the bullpen in yesterday's game, Cash just told us everyone, including yourself, will be available tomorrow. What's the feeling going into Game 5? What does it feel like knowing that everyone is available for Game 5?
BLAKE SNELL: Yeah, I'm excited. It's good to see that everyone can go, especially Chuck. I want to see him throw again, wouldn't that be cool?
But, I mean, everyone is excited. It was a very calm flight over. We left at noon. I watched a movie and passed out. Other guys were playing dominoes. It was just very chill. And then the bus ride was very calm, as well.
We're ready to play. And I think this moment is where we thrive best. But we're very calm and relaxed, and I think that's what makes it even more exciting for us.
Q. What's the most impressive part about watching this parade of relievers you guys run in there with their stuff and their demeanor and all that?
BLAKE SNELL: They just keep doing it. I think that's the most impressive part. It's easy to be good for a game or two but they're good every single day. And they never know when their name is going to get called. So for them to be ready all the time and for them to always have their A game, I think that's the most impressive part, especially against this lineup. We're pitching really good against this lineup that's really good, as well. So for us to be able to do that consistently is pretty amazing.
Q. The series is even, but there's a sense amongst some of your guys you guys have the momentum and maybe more the pressure is on them. What's your take on that?
BLAKE SNELL: I look at we're playing in Houston. They're really good in Houston. Their fans are going to show up. And I don't look at it as momentum or anything like that, I think it's just who wants it more. And I think that's the exciting part for us is we've played an elimination game already. We've been doing it, actually. So for us it's just another game that we're excited to play.
And honestly, we just enjoy playing with each other a lot. And I think that's the coolest part is that we don't want to stop. And with the way -- Houston, they've had their team and they've been able to continue to string it off. And I think that's what's amazing. But for us, we don't know if everyone is going to be back or that core will be. We know young guys will, but with d'Arnaud and Avisaíl and other guys, we don't know if they're going to be back. So we want to make this a moment we'll never forget together.
And that's the goal is to get to the World Series. We have to beat Houston. We've got to beat New York and then whoever in the World Series. But we don't want to stop, and I think that's the coolest part because all of us really do love playing the game with each other.
Q. Can you pinpoint what it is about the makeup of this team where you guys didn't flinch down 0-2. Is it as simple as you just said, you love playing with each other?
BLAKE SNELL: Yeah, I would say. Usually you have like a bump in the road, somewhere there's a guy that makes someone else mad. There's always that one guy. And on this team there's not like that one guy. There's like multiple guys that everyone -- like Heredia, that guy is hilarious, and he's always bringing it. And it's contagious. And then the whole team is doing it. And that's kind of been the thing.
I don't think it's -- I think it's just like everyone enjoys everyone. And I think that's what makes us so special and so dangerous because once one thing happens, I feel like after -- it just leads to where we can get hot pretty quick. And then the dugout is going insane and then the bullpen is locking it down. And that's kind of how it happens, honestly.
So I would just say it really is that simple: We just really do love each other.
Q. When you guys went down to 0-2, did you guys hear the chatter of Houston is up 2-0, this series is probably --
BLAKE SNELL: Honestly, we kind of got annoyed. At least I know for myself, I don't know about everyone else. But I got annoyed of hearing about Houston this, Houston that. I know how good they are. I know how talented that team is. But I felt like everything media driven was strictly about them, and they weren't giving us any credit. They weren't talking about us at all.
That's why I was annoyed because we know how good we are. For us to fight back to 2-2, it's pretty cool. But we're not done and I know that we've got a really tough task tomorrow to beat them here.
Q. Adames made that great toss last night. How fun is it pitching in front of him? How much have you seen him grow?
BLAKE SNELL: From last year to this year it's been a lot. I mean, I can honestly say last year I thought Willy -- honestly I thought he was probably going to go to second base because his throws were pretty bad all the time. And fielding-wise he was just okay. But he can make the spectacular play here and there.
And then he came to Spring Training and he looked pretty good. I still had my doubts. And then to see what he did throughout the season and then every day, I mean every day this man takes ground balls, and he wants more, and he wants Cash to hit them harder. He's working with Rodney all the time. I mean that dude is dedicated now. His routine is so good and so good with what he's doing. And then to see how it's translating on the field and how he is hitting. His whole game has turned around just because he wanted it that much. Would say when he got here he was just enjoying the moment and he finally learned how to make take the moment and make it his. I think that's the most special thing about him. Now he can enjoy the game, but he knows what he has to do the best him he can be. He's grown probably the most I've seen out of anyone.
Q. We know that statistically hitters gain an advantage if they see a pitcher more than once or more than twice in a game. But what about over the course of a series? Do you think hitters can still get that kind of an advantage?
BLAKE SNELL: Yeah. But at the same time it depends who's hot. If a hitter is hot, he's hot. If he's cold, he's cold. And there's no way around that. If there's pitchers in your bullpen that are hot, they're probably the hottest in the game because that's how good they are.
I think, yeah, the familiarity, that plays a part. But I don't think in the postseason I don't know -- I just think if you're hot, you're hot, if you're not, you're not. I don't think there's any way around seeing a guy or not. I just really believe that whoever is better is going to win. And then you'll get the mix and match if they're hot and they've got something going or if they don't.
Q. How important is it to set the tone as the starter? In all four games Springer has been pretty quiet, really outside of that home run, Altuve, Charlie, and the top of the lineup has been very quiet.
BLAKE SNELL: Can you say that again? I want to make sure I understand a hundred percent.
Q. As a starter how important is it to come out and really set the tone? Diego yesterday -- specifically with Springer he's been really quiet to get the ball rolling at the beginning of the game.
BLAKE SNELL: No, it's important because usually you see once one of them goes they all start going crazy. Their top of the lineup is hitting, them dudes wild out. They find the camera and find a way to get everyone pumped up. They get the fans pumped. They get everyone pumped. So for us to limit them it's huge. Because we know once you get them going and their confidence gets built up they could be something dangerous. That's probably why they won all of them damn games. It's huge. You've got to slow them down and make them doubt theirselves. That's the biggest thing, if you can get them to start doubting theirselves or missing pitches they usually don't miss and you see it, you've got to take advantage of it and you've got to really start making them doubt theirselves. And I think that's the key. You've just got to go out and impose your will. Right now they're struggling a little bit at the top. But it's the postseason, anything can happen. Them guys can get hot any second. We've just got to keep taking advantage of it and try to just make them doubt theirselves.
Q. Now that you're a reliever, what was it like being in the bullpen? Would you eat? What did you do to pass the time? Do you have appreciation for what those guys do?
BLAKE SNELL: Yeah, that's not for me. I'm not going to lie. It was weird. I walked out with them. I just followed their whole bullpen routine. It was like where do I sit? I'm not trying to sit in anyone's spot, which is impossible, I sat in Diego's spot. Yeah, I mean it was weird, it's just super boring. That's the truth. It's boring. There's not a lot to do. You just kind of look around. I get the advantage of I sit in the dugout and it's right there in front of me. And when I go in the bullpen it's like Reddick is in front of me or Avisaíl is in front of me, and I'm looking at the game so far away, it's like you're in la la land. It's not for me. I don't like it. But it was cool towards the end when I knew I had a chance to pitch and I was excited.
But the first seven innings, yeah, I was pretty bored. I had some gum, some seeds. Normal snacks. I brought beef jerky. I had applesauce on the way down, too. So it was an exciting time for me food-wise, but watching the game, a little boring.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT