ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2016
Dennis Wolff
Chanette Hicks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 49, Virginia Tech - 37   
DENNIS WOLFF: First thing I want to do is credit BC.  It was a hard-fought game.  They had a good game plan.  You know, certainly they made us struggle on offense.  I think with every missed shot we started to press a little more and got everybody a little bit tighter.  But the girls still put a lot of effort into it, so I'm proud of the effort, but you're not going to win many games when you're shooting the way we just shot the ball in that game.   
 Q.  Coach, obviously you mentioned the poor shooting.  What really led to that?  What did BC do defensively?  
DENNIS WOLFF: Well, I think they've been a good defensive team all year, and I think that more than anything, we had a couple of -- we had some easy misses in the first half, and seemingly for us, those type of things snowball, and I think good shooting can be contagious, and missing makeable shots can be contagious the same way.   
 Q.  Dennis, what did you think of the shot selection?  
DENNIS WOLFF: I thought in the first half it was okay.  I thought as we were really scrambling from behind there in the second half, I think our effort caused us to take some ill-advised rush shots.  So I think there was a -- we kept telling them in the time-outs there was plenty of time, you guys are kind of playing like there's one minute left in the game when there was 15 minutes left in the game, so I think there was a little bit of a sense of panic that set in there that we couldn't stop.   
 Q.  What was the offensive game plan heading into this game to try to get Hannah Young going?  She's obviously struggled the last couple games.  
DENNIS WOLFF: Well, we wanted to -- it really wasn't -- there was an emphasis on getting her going.  I think the emphasis was getting a good shot, and I thought in the first half we had a lot of good shots that we didn't make.  The second half started and we missed a couple of close by-the-basket shots, and that's one of the things that's plagued us a little bit all year because we're not really capable of throwing the ball and getting good post scoring.  We've got to move everybody around a little.   
 Q.  It seemed like they really were trying to pound the ball inside to Fasoula early on.  What were you doing defensively to try to stop that and keep that from being an impact?  
DENNIS WOLFF: Well, she's a good player and she's skilled, and Erik runs good stuff so they try to get her in the post different ways.  I actually though we guarded her pretty good.  If you look at her numbers, you know she had nine points, but she had seven turnovers, and we kind of jammed it up a little bit in there.  If you look at the rebounding totals they beat us to loose balls.  We were a step behind all night, and I'm not really sure why.   
 Q.  Chanette, talk about, you seemed frustrated out there, you got the technical, and then at the end of the third quarter, you committed the foul on the three, obviously not something you wanted to do.  
CHANETTE HICKS: Well, the technical, I really didn't mean to do the tech, I just was frustrated that I traveled.  And then the foul on the three I was just trying to close out and I ended up fouling which kind of put them up by nine, when we were down by six.  So that was really frustrating, but Coach and the team just kept saying let`s just keep our head together and just keep our composure.   
DENNIS WOLFF: You know, I think the technical in the first half she wasn't trying to show the ref up.  She knew she had traveled.  She tried to pound the ball down and just lost the ball.   
 Q.  Your reflections on the season?  You guys get the first winning year in a long time here and obviously the tournament didn't end the way you wanted it to, but your reflections?  
DENNIS WOLFF: We made progress.  I think the girls played very hard, including this game.  You know, we're happy that we won more games and all that.  We still would like to be playing tomorrow.  It's hard for me like right this second to give you like an overall analysis of the whole year.  We hoped to be playing still, and I think that's a possibility.   
We're going to regroup.  It's a great group of kids.  They all want to play, and we'll take a shot at the next game if we're fortunate enough to have one.   
 Q.  Just a couple other stats on here.  I guess they commit 23 turnovers and you commit 11; it seemed as if -- but being out-rebounded 44-27, is that just a product of you missing all those shots because they didn't shoot a very high percentage, either.  
DENNIS WOLFF: No, I think that's what it was.  I think we got so many more shots than them.  It's not like -- they only got seven offensive rebounds, so it's not like -- we turned them over, and it's been a little bit of a problem for us this year.  We've turned teams over, like today I thought we turned them over, and Chanette and Sammy, they put a lot of effort into it, and we were just a little bit too sped up trying to convert those things, so you take what appears to be a good defensive play and we turn it into an unproductive offensive play.   
 Q.  Chanette, if this is y'all's last game, obviously with Hannah, Taijah and Dom are not going to be here next year.  What really is the team going to miss about them the most?  
CHANETTE HICKS: I know we're going to miss Dom and Taijah for rebounding in the post, and I`m definitely going to miss Hannah for the threes and her scoring, just going to the basket and knowing she's there, and I have so much faith in her.  As in today she was missing it, and I told her I'm going to keep giving it to you even though you're missing it.  I believe you`re gong to make it.  So I know I'm really going to miss that when it comes to Hannah, so yeah.   
DENNIS WOLFF: If I could say this, Chanette had a really, really god freshman year.  I was a little disappointed she wasn`t on the All-Rookie Team because I thought she played well enough to be on that.   
 Q.  I think you guys were behind by 10 against Virginia and came back.  Was part of this a product of poor play the first three quarters leading to poor play in the fourth quarter?  
DENNIS WOLFF: Well, I think the -- I think midway through the third period we were doing some dumb things to our selves, and I think that those type of plays got us in an increased sense of panic.  As Chanette said, we kept saying to them in every time-out girls, there's 15 minutes left, there's 10 minutes left, let's calm down and go one play at a time.  And that's a lot of times, as you know, it's easier said than done.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT