BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2012
Jamie Dixon
Ashton Gibbs
Nasir Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH DIXON:   Well, congratulations to Georgetown, the win.   Obviously I thought we got to off a good start.   We did some good things, attacked the zone, did some pretty good things again as the game progressed.   We didn't do what we needed to do as far as rebounding, and that was clearly a deficiency in our area, and then attacking the zone not as good a job as we normally do, something we usually do a pretty good job of but did not get what we needed to do.   Proud of how our guys played, proud of our seniors.   This is their last time to play in the garden in the Big East Championship, and I know they wanted to go out of here winning this thing, but we came up short, and Georgetown played very well. 
I thought they were patient on the offensive end, and then defense, I really thought their zone hurt us more than I anticipated.   They played against us at our place and we attacked it pretty well but did not in this game, and so we didn't get more offensive rebounds which is something we usually do against the zone, and that usually is a way that we hurt it, too, and didn't get that done.   Congratulations to Georgetown.   Very proud of our guys, our two seniors here and how much they battled and played.   I wanted to end this at the Garden here with great memories at the Garden.   Played well last night, didn't play as well today, but we'll‑‑ again, I'll say how proud of them, how well they played. 

Q.   Jamie, difference between the first time you guys played Georgetown and today in terms of what they were able to do this game?
COACH DIXON:   Well, we got off to a good start.   I thought we got some good penetration, started out in the zone and we got some penetration against the zone.   Tray got in some foul trouble this game, as a number of our guys did, and I think it just kind of took away from the aggressiveness that we wanted to play with.   Tray did a good job of getting in the lane.   I thought we did a good job of getting‑‑ keeping him out front early, but eventually they couldn't get the ball inside, and they hurt us more inside this game and that was something we didn't see, but I think the fouls had something to do with that, taking away our aggressiveness. 

Q.   Yesterday you guys kind of bullied the St. John's team and were physical with them.   How much did Georgetown's length present a problem for you guys? 
NASIR ROBINSON:   It was a big problem for us.   We was going in there, shooting against two and three guys.   They did a good job of rebounding, and they just out worked‑‑ they were more physical than us. 

Q.   How about J.J.? 
COACH DIXON:   J.J. played hard.   He hurt his ankle there in the second half, had to take him out there, and I don't know that he felt comfortable.   But we never quite got him going.   We never really got anybody going, offensively.   And it just didn't quite seem we got the penetration or interior touches against the zone that we wanted to get and played inside out and that's what, I think, hurt us again the zone.   We got off to a great start early, I thought we got some touches inside, but as the game progressed had less success getting inside and less success with the penetration. 
I think it's a reflection of how we attacked it and a reflection of all our guys really.   We've got to do a better job and I've got to do a better job with that.

Q.   Can you talk about the NCAA?
COACH DIXON:   Yeah, obviously we knew we had to win this tournament here, and obviously it's been a nice streak and something that I guess only a few schools have done more.   But right now, it's all about this game and how we feel after this one for us, for me personally I should say, and I just felt we were going to play better.   I thought we were going to play better.   We played well to start the game, did some good things.   I thought we defended pretty well, but as the game progressed, we continued to foul and then our attack against the zone just did not live up to what we needed to do. 

Q.   For two guys that have spent pretty much your entire careers at the top of the rankings and playing in some very memorable NCAA Tournament games, will it take a minute to sort of gather yourself and get geared up for the NIT or is that an opportunity‑‑ are you eager for that opportunity to go out on a nice note? 
NASIR ROBINSON:   Yeah, it's tough.   I mean, obviously this is the first time in our lives we've gone through this situation.   We're just going to finish off strong, NIT or whatever, we're just going to finish off strong and keep fighting. 

Q.   So you guys would want to play in the NIT if they invite you? 
ASHTON GIBBS:   Yeah, I'll play NIT.   It's basketball at the end of the day.   That's what we came to college for is to play basketball.   Just wherever we can play, we're definitely going to play our hardest. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT