AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS VS ASTROS
October 6, 2019
Charlie Morton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You faced your buddies over there during the regular season. What's it going to be like in the postseason, Charlie? You've been through the fight with them and now you're going to do everything you can to stop what they're doing.  
CHARLIE MORTON: Right. So I guess that's the challenge. Two-part. Because you're facing guys that you're close with, you went through a lot with. And I guess that you know what they're capable of.   
So I don't know. I mean, you play teams like the Astros, the Yankees, the Red Sox, the Dodgers. And there's that mystique about them. You know that those teams are really good.   
For me, there's really no mystery with the Astros. It's just kind of they are who they are to me. I mean, I know those guys pretty well, on and off the field. I'm well aware of the challenges that they present. And I know what they're made of.   
I'm just going to go out there and make pitches and try to make pitches and challenge them.   
 Q.  Quick two-parter, Charlie. Is it easier to spin the ball and get the break you want indoors or outdoors?  
CHARLIE MORTON: The more humid, the better, I think, and lower elevations. So here it can be a little bit of a challenge because we're under air. It's pretty enclosed here. Minute Maid wasn't too bad. It was still kind of humid. There was still some air that was trapped in there from before they started running the air.   
But, yeah, I mean in places like Arizona and Colorado, that's tough because the air is so dry. In Colorado, in particular, it's thin.   
But I would say anywhere we're going to go this year in the postseason, I would say that it's pretty easy to spin the ball.   
 Q.  Another quick one. What is the most important thing you could say that Houston and Brent Strom passed on to you to reach the level of success you've been at?  
CHARLIE MORTON: I don't know. I think it's hard to summarize it into one particular thing. But I would say know your strengths and go with your strengths. And if they are, in fact, true strengths, it's good enough. Just kind of -- you know, you have to identify them and have the people that you're working with believe in them too. I think that was a big thing.   
Because when I got to Houston, it was like they had some ideas about my stuff. One, you need to throw your curveball a lot more. I was on board with that, because that was something that was suggested to me by the Phillies guys, Rick Kranitz and Bob McClure.   
They suggested trying to move my two-seam around a little bit to places where I hadn't really tried it, in particular righties, and to limit my two-seam usage against lefties. Increase my four-seam usage.   
Also, I would say, on the baseball, purely baseball side, I would say that. But Stromy is awesome to work with. So it's not just about the technical things that he's getting into either. It's about the person he is.   
 Q.  Thank you.  
CHARLIE MORTON: You're welcome.   
 Q.  Charlie, you alluded to this before the start against Oakland, the meaning of having home games for the franchise and now you get to pitch in the first home game for this team in the postseason in six years. What does it mean to you, and what do you think it means to this group?  
CHARLIE MORTON: I don't know, because I think you can dwell or think about the sentimental reasons why you're motivated. I just don't -- I'm not sure that we're this kind of group. I think we're -- there's some guys in there that are motivated for each other that are well aware of the position we're in together and what it took to get here.   
So yeah, it's nice to do things well for the organization. Like you take pride in the name on your jersey. I mean, in 2013, when I was with the Pirates, we had 20 straight years of losing. Obviously, we hadn't been, as an organization, been in the playoffs in 20 years.   
That was a little bit, for sentimental reasons, a little more special. For a lot of us, it was our first time to go to the playoffs. But also for the organization and the city. That was a fan base longing for a competitive team on the field, and they showed up.   
I think that drought made it more special. It had been so long. I think there is some of that here. Like I think I touched on, you know, trying to connect this organization, this team with the fan base here because, you know, there's a certain -- I feel like there's a certain window you have, a lot of times, to establish that. Especially with younger fans, people that are first generation Floridians.   
So I think that's something that certainly motivates me a little bit for, you know, being now a local, living in Bradenton. But playoff baseball and success, I mean, there are a myriad of motivations that come with that, certainly. To what degree, I couldn't tell you, but I think to be honest with you, I think we just really want to, you know, go out there and have some success for each other. Especially such a young group.   
 Q.  Charlie, we know you've stepped up in some very big games. How much do you like the fact that it's in your hand to try to turn this back into a race?  
CHARLIE MORTON: I don't know. I mean, you never want to go down 0-2 to a team, especially a team like the Astros in a five-game series, nonetheless.   
I don't know. I don't know how much I relish in that, in those situations. I know I couldn't tell you. I try to take the ball every time I do, whether it's in the regular season or postseason. I try to take it, go out and do my job, execute pitches. Try to stay as even keeled as possible and -- but, I mean, there's just no denying the situation we're in.   
We got our backs to the wall a little bit here. So for me to get the opportunity to go out and try to get some quality innings, give our team a chance to win, yeah, I mean, these games are special when a lot's on the line.   
Probably some of the more memorable moments in baseball I'll ever have are games I've pitched in the playoffs. This is a great opportunity for us, show what we're made of, go out there against a big challenge here and see what we got.   
 Q.  Charlie, you alluded to the team dynamic a little bit. You guys have had a number of challenges this year, kind of a midseason lull, injuries. Just what is your sense of kind of the mood and approach you guys will have with this fairly dire situation?  
CHARLIE MORTON: Yeah. Well, I mean, after we lost the first one in Houston, I didn't feel -- you know, I didn't feel really -- I didn't get that sense because we go out tomorrow and take one back to Tampa, the series is tied, we're in Tampa. Obviously, that's not the scenario we find ourselves in.   
There's no denying what we've done this year in situations where we found ourselves behind late in the game or, you know, we went on a streak where we just couldn't win, and we rattled off a bunch of wins.   
There's fight in this team. There's a lot of fight in this team. But tomorrow's going to be a challenge. The next couple days. We win tomorrow, next day's going to be a challenge. Then, you know, you go back into Houston for a game 5 situation. It's just the kind of thing where I don't even want to think about that stuff, to be honest with you.   
We've got to win tomorrow. I've got to go out and get out No. 1 tomorrow. So that's what's on my mind. Batter No. 1, getting out No. 1, getting through the first inning and going from there.   
But, I mean, you're going to have to overcome challenges in the postseason to get to the World Series and win the World Series.   
 Q.  Do you think there's a message to make sure the younger guys kind of get that take tomorrow, don't look at it as a three-game challenge? Look at it as a one-game challenge. Is that something maybe the older guys can share with the younger guys?  
CHARLIE MORTON: Yeah. I think we've talked about this a little bit before. Without getting too into what's going on in the clubhouse, particular things being said, we just have a group that is a pretty fun, energetic, loose group.   
It's like you can have these one-on-one conversations with guys and try to convey a message if you want. But at the same time, it's like you call team meetings or you start saying things that you wouldn't normally say, start acting a certain way like you wouldn't normally act.   
I don't know, just sometimes guys get a little out of character in situations like this. I think it only worsens the mood. I think it sometimes makes it a little more difficult going into these games when people start hitting the panic button.   
Sure, I mean, it's 0-2. We're down two games to none against the Astros. We're all aware of that. I don't think that needs to be said. But yeah, I mean, maybe something will be said. Maybe something will be said to touch upon it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT