US OPEN
September 8, 2020
Yulia Putintseva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. BRADY/Y. Putintseva
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. As the match continued, what kind of tactics did you consider that could help you take more control of how the points were going?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I was just trying doing the match like to change some things a little bit, but unfortunately it wasn't working for me well today.
I think my, like not the concentration, but I was a little bit more tired than the match before, and I couldn't react to the point as fast.  And she was playing really fast balls to me, so I should have been quicker with my reaction.  With my feet, as well.
I tried to move a little bit more her in the second set, but it didn't really work.  Yeah, just not the best day for me, but she played really good.
Q. Tough luck, but what do you take out of this quarterfinal run at the US Open?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I mean, I'm taking a lot of positive things.  It's been my first quarterfinal on hard court and major, and it's been a good week.  Unfortunately, I will not be able to go further, but that's okay.
She played a great match.  She deserved to win today.  And I hope next time I will take this chance to go semis or further.
Q. Looking ahead towards the clay season, what are your plans?  How easy is it for you to adjust, especially this year, because the hard courts in New York were playing so fast?  How hard do you think is the adjustment now having to get ready for clay so quickly?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I mean, it's not the adjustment of the game, because I think everyone is playing, like when the season is on, everyone is playing every week, so the game is there.  It's more problem of the injuries, because I think I never jumped that quick from the hard court to the clay court.
Honestly, last few years I was trying to skip first tournaments on clay, even though I'm playing pretty good there, just to give myself more time, to get used to sliding, to get used to the court because it's different conditions.
But this year, unfortunately we don't have this choice.  We have to play, because there is not so many tournaments on clay before the French Open.  Obviously I want to play some matches, so I'm just hoping that, yeah, these few days I'm gonna take easy on clay, and hopefully I will get used to it fast.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT