US OPEN
September 6, 2020
Yulia Putintseva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Y. PUTINTSEVA/P. Martic
6-3, 2-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. A tough match and a good win.  Can you just talk through the match.  Very good start to the match in the first set.  It seemed like Petra was able to make some adjustments to make things more difficult.  How did you close it out in the end?  Just talk through the whole match.
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   Yeah, I had a very good beginning of the match.  I think Petra wasn't ready for me to move really quick and not give any, like, free shots.  I was there from the beginning.
Then when it was, I think, 5-0, I slowed down a little bit.  But then I -- and she start to play better, as well.  It was really tough for me to close the first set, because also I was feeling like a little bit nervous that she was coming back.  I was not able to play as good as in the beginning.  But then I closed it.  I relaxed myself a little bit.
The second set was, like, really, really tight in the beginning.  I mean, in the physical way and, like, in the game, as well.  And I felt like my serve was taking, like, 20 minutes to get there, you know, because was lots of rallies (smiling).
Yeah, she just did very good stuff on important moments.  That's what help her to close it at 6-2.  But before the third set, I said to myself, Whatever happens, you just make it difficult for her.  You're not going to do any mistakes.  You're going to do, like, you're going to move her around the court as much as possible and just do your best point by point.  That's what help me a lot today, this mindset, as well.
Q. What has your experience been like on these courts?  Because we know obviously you're so good on clay.  You have made the quarterfinals twice at Roland Garros.  Here at the US Open, especially this year, the court is playing much faster, everybody says.  So do you like the courts this fast?  Is that do you think contributing to your success?  Or have you had to adjust your game a lot?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   No, actually, like, when I just arrived to New York and I had a practice, I said, What the hell was the court really like?  I was, like, What the hell is going on here (smiling)?
I wasn't able to hit one ball in front of me.  And I was like, Okay, at least I have some time to get used to it, you know.
Then, yeah, day by day, match by match, practice by practice, I was getting there.  I was trying to get my preparation a little bit shorter so I don't lose much time with it.
Then I was, like, yeah, I was feeling better and better, like, during even at Cincinnati/New York week.  Yeah, before the US Open started, I was already feeling pretty good on this court.  Like, I was really happy that they made the tournament one tournament before the US Open starts so I could, like, get in there (smiling).
Q. Is it more than just adjusting your strokes and making things a little bit shorter?  Was there other adjustments, as well, maybe tactically?  Or, you know, even physically it must be a lot harder on the body to move on a quicker court to get behind the ball, right?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   No, for sure, for sure, it's tougher because I had to, like, have a quick reaction every day and be ready to move a lot and to, like, you know, not give easy one when I'm off-position.  Like, when I'm in defense I had to play really deep, because if I play short on these kind of courts, like, the point inevitably is over.
Yeah, it is what it is.  I cannot change the court, at least this year (smiling).  So I had to be ready and to get as far as I can with these conditions that it is this year.
Q. After that first practice in Cincinnati/New York, when you first hit on the courts, if somebody were to say, Hey, in two-and-a-half weeks you're going to be in the quarterfinals of the US Open, what would you have said?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   Well, you know, I have a really good solid belief every tournament I play I really hope and putting in the mindset that I can go, like, far.
So if someone would told me that, I would say, Okay, good.  I have to work hard, of course, but thanks a lot (smiling) for saying that.
Q. Talk about playing Jennifer Brady.  You have beaten her twice in the two times that you have played each other.  What does that matchup look like to you and what will you have to do well to win?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   She's a really good player, even though we played, like, a long time ago, I think two, three years ago, she was already, like, having a good game style, you know, moving a lot and taking forehand, big serve.
I think I just need to focus on my game and prepare for a good match.
Q. What does it mean to you to make the quarterfinals of the US Open?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I mean, it's pretty cool (smiling).  Well, and I hope, like, I can do even better at some point of my career, as well.
Q. Numerous women have won majors in the last few years.  How has this affected your thoughts on whether you too could win a major?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I mean, I'm too far away right now to think about winning the major.  At the moment I have to focus on my next match and be prepared for what's coming.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT