THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 1, 2019
Yulia Putintseva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Y. PUTINTSEVA/N. Osaka
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Your third win in a row against her, all in straight sets.  What do you think works so well in this matchup for you?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I'm not going to tell you my secrets (laughter).
No, but honestly, I think I was able to keep my concentration up high all these three matches.  I feel like whenever I am going down with Naomi in bad concentration, she's straight, like, doing so many winners.  I was trying to make it as more uncomfortable for her as possible.  That's the only thing.
Q. What do you do to make her uncomfortable?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I think she definitely don't like to move a lot, what I'm trying to make.  I was trying to mix it up, as well.
Q. Being on Centre Court, playing the world No. 2, what was that experience like for you?  You're an intense person.  Sometimes in that environment it can be so emotional, getting too hyped.  How did you keep an even emotional plane the whole time?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: As I said, I was trying to concentrate on each and every point, especially when I was returning.  It was a very tough match, especially like mentally because she's always pressing, pressing, pressing.  You have to stay cool.  Sometimes when she does unbelievable winner, you have to accept it.
Yeah, to play on this amazing court, it's a great experience.  I really loved it out there (smiling).
Q. Maybe grass is not your favorite surface, but your strategy against Naomi works very well.  Talk about the combination, the bright side and not good side of playing against her on the grass?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: Well, I think maybe it's not my best surface, but I'm definitely feeling better and better every year I'm coming here.  I think I adjust some of the things which I've been doing on grass last year.  I trying to keep the service percentage higher.
But Naomi, I think she can be one of the most dangerous player on grass in the future because she has definitely a big serve, which is very important on grass.  She has, like, aggressive mentality to do first shots aggressive.  On grass, it's very important because you cannot be offensive.
But today, yeah, I was just trying to mix it up, trying to make it uncomfortable for her, trying to open the court whenever I can.
Q. You're still very young, but it feels like you've been around for ages.  Does it feel like it for you?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: Yeah, I don't know.  I've been playing juniors.  Sometimes when you come on a Grand Slam, it's all mixed up in your head.  Wimbledon I played only two times I think in juniors.  So, yeah, but I don't feel old still.  Still trying to fight.  I mean, that's great that I have some years hopefully ahead of me to play in a Grand Slam.
It's amazing to come here.  Yeah, it's a great experience every time I come.
Q. Having made one of the biggest shocks of the day, people want to know more about you.  What have you been doing in London?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I'm staying all the years next to Roland Garros [sic], not so far, so I don't stay in the traffic in the city.  I went once for shopping.  Actually, it wasn't a shopping trip, it was for my hitting partner to see the city.  I kind of put it all together.  So the city I did shopping, so everyone won.
Q. Who is your hitting partner?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: Dennis (indiscernible).
Q. How did you enjoy the trip?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I went to see the Big Ben, but it's under the construction.  He was very upset not to see the Big Ben in the end.  We had some nice walk around the city with my team.  It was very nice, but a little bit cold.
Q. In terms of psychology at that match, Naomi looked strong at the start.  She started to fade as the game went.  Explain how you psychologically approach a match.
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I think Naomi today definitely started more aggressive, putting more balls in than the last two matches that we played.  She was definitely making more winners, not missing easy shots.  I was just trying to stay there, trying to still, like, do what me and my team talked about.  That what helped me to come back in the first set and to win it in the end.
Q. You're known for being a good fighter.  How much do you think you get from your father, who I think is a wrestler?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: Sorry?
Q. Your father was a wrestler.
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: No, Judo.
Q. How much of your fighting instincts do you get from that?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I feel all my family been, like, involved with sport.  My mom was doing, I don't know how you call it in English, when you're in a boat.
Q. Rowing?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I don't know, whatever.  She was doing that.
She was also great in the sport, it was Soviet Union back then.  My brother also used to play hockey.  My whole family behind was also doing ski.  I think this fighting spirit that we all naturally have.  I mean, that's great.  It helps in some important moments.
Q. You talk about feeling better on grass every year that you play on it.  How much do you think is experience, being good and learning how to play on this surface?  Do you remember the first time you played on grass what you thought of it?  Compare it to what you think about it now.
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: Yeah, I remember coming and playing on grass first time, even the practice.  Was back in juniors before Roehampton.  I came pretty much in advance.  I came maybe like one week before the tournament.  I remember how much I hated.  With my coach, I was fighting.  I was saying that I don't want to play here.
I used to play more on clay courts.  Clay courts it's more spin, dropshots, serve kick and stuff.  When I came on grass, was totally opposite.  For my mental, it was like killing myself.
It took some time.  I was doing good actually.
Q. What's the key to backing up a really big win like this?  How do you go again in the next round?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I think I just need to enjoy this moment that I beat top player here, and to talk tactically about the next match with my team.  I hope to put on some good stuff in this match and do good.
Q. You hit the incredible dropshot return winner to break in the second set.  You hit one in Birmingham against her.  Are those intentional?  Are you trying to hit a different shot than that shot?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: Honestly, in Birmingham I tried to hit a dropshot.  This time I tried to return slice short.  In the end, it was dropshot, so it was even better.  It was a little bit lucky.  Yeah, was in the end good shot.
Q. Do you think the grass is playing slower this year?  Has that given you more time to get to balls?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I don't think so.  I think honestly every court in Wimbledon is different.  I've been practicing with Belinda on Court No. 10.  It was slow.  I've been practicing on Court No. 8, it was fantastic.  Today was more like Aorangi.  It's all different.  I never know where the grass is faster, slower, yeah.  Kind of weird.
Q. How did you learn how to play with your variety, slices and spins?  It's not normal.
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: I was learning it when I was young.  I always watched the players like Justine Henin, Amelie Mauresmo.  I was growing up watching them.  Also my father was as my coach.  When I was young, he was watching them as well.  Was always working a lot on this slice backhand, dropshots, all these kind of shots.
That's pretty much it.
Q. Do you get more excited about hitting a winner or hitting a shot that makes the opponent uncomfortable and forces them to miss?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA: Depends on the situation.  I honestly don't care if it's a winner or if it's a ball which is forced error, as long as I am winning the point.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT