DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 20, 2013
Yulia Putintseva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/Y. Putintseva
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What do you take from this?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I take a lot of experience from this match.   I think it's a big step in my career to play first time against top 5 player, and I think it's great. 
I enjoy the moment a lot, and I'm quite happy with what I did on the court.   We'll see if I can do next time better.   We'll see how it will go.

Q.   What could you have done better?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I could do better some moments when I missed some forehands deep.   I think in those moments I was really nervous, because it was 6‑5 I think once, and I did two mistakes from half court and one double fault, and I think this was the biggest mistake in the set, because after this I lose.
But if I could stay more concentrate and put this ball in, but I rushed and I wanted to win so much, so I just hit and it was out.   Well, and of course when I had opportunity like in second set like two times 40‑15, and I think I should do more on the court or at least try to make the situation better for me, but I was pushing too much.   I think that's why also the second set I lost.

Q.   You just turned 18 last month.   How are you finding your evolution with the game?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   Well, I turned 18 one month ago, and I think right now I need to improve mental stuff more than tennis, because I think I have really good tennis but in the head yet I'm a junior player.
So I need to really focus on what I'm doing and not what's going around sometimes, because most of the time when I'm playing I say, Okay, I have bad strings or it's the sun or it's the wind.   Well, not today, but sometimes. 
I think this is like I need to work on my mental strength.   And of course technique, it's never over.   I need to work more my forehands and shots and backhand, serve, everything.

Q.   Leave out the top big players.   In your group, who do you think is competitive enough at your same level?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I think each player it's really good from the next generation coming, but we all have our problems, which only we can work with.
And who will do it better first will reach the goal to be No. 1 and to win a Grand Slam.   That's my opinion. 

Q.   Do you have some names that you see as your rivals in years to come who are similar age to you?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   You mean youngers? 

Q.   Yeah, young players that you think ‑‑I mean, it would appear that you're going up the rankings. 
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I think there is many players, like Laura Robson.   Then who else?   Mladenovic, Gavrilova.   So many players. 
But they have their own problems, like I told you, and it depends on them if they can do it or not.   Well, sometimes they can be bad mentally, you know.   They can choke on the court, or some of them are not really focused on tennis like they should, or there is so many good players which are playing really good level, but they're juniors as well and they have a lot of ups and downs and they're not consistent enough.

Q.   What's the hardest thing about graduating from the juniors up into the main tour?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   It's concentration and to stay really the same level all the match.   Juniors, they are not consistent, like I told you.   They have a lot of ups and downs.   They can play unbelievable level for three games but then after drop for a level of 1000. 

Q.   I understand you have had a hit with Serena a couple of times.   What do you take from... 
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I never hit with her.   With Serena, never. 

Q.   No? 
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   No.   I hit with Martina Hingis a lot but never with Serena.   I wish, but I'm shy to ask her.   (Laughter.)
Q.I think what she said, she was practicing on the next court to you. 
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   Yes, that's true.

Q.   She said that she had seen your game and that, you know, everyone who sees your game says you're the next big thing.   What do you take from that, from someone like Serena who has taken note of an 18‑year‑old kid playing next to her?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   Well, what I was seeing, she was playing amazing, really.   When I was practicing next to her, I was like, Wow, I wish I could play the same one day.   (Laughter.)
But she was practicing with a man and she was winning some points.   It was like, Oh, my God.

Q.   Was that at the academy or ‑‑
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   No, it was in Mauritius. 
I think Serena, she's playing so different.   She's not a woman's tennis.   For me, she's playing like a man.   She's serving so good and returning the ball, and she can hit fast, she can just keep the ball in play, and for me she's just the biggest player at the moment.

Q.   How much input do you have from Patrick himself, or do you just have your own coach?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I have my own coach in the academy, and most of the time I'm working with my dad and my hitting partner.   Patrick almost never working with me, but he giving me some good advice sometimes. 
Once or twice of course he had a practice with me.   I think he's a great coach.   I'm really thankful everything what he's doing to me in the academy.

Q.   How did that come about, you going there?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   What? 

Q.   Why did you go to the academy?   How did that come about?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   You mean how did I get there, or... 

Q.   Well, did he spot you or did you apply or did your father apply? 
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   No, just I was playing a tournament in France like Junior World Championship Under‑14, and I won it and I got an invitation for a free two weeks in Mouratoglou. 
Once I had a chance I went there, and I really like it there because there was so many good facilities like fitness coaches, physios, coaches, courts, everything that you need to improve your level.

Q.   You mentioned Hingis just then.   How much... 
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   I met Hingis before in the US Open when I was in final, 2009 I think.   She was working with the same agent that I have, Octagon, and I met her and she was just so friendly and spoke to me.
After she start to work in Mouratoglou, and I had a chance to really work with her a lot, especially in Dubai last time when I was here.   In the tournament 75,000 she came here with me.   And I think it was really great that she helped me a lot, and I think she's helping a lot with, you know, the game on the court. 
Because she was No. 1 she have a great experience.   For me, more she working with me, better it is, I think. 
If I have a team like my hitting partner, Martina and my father, I think it's the best, and fitness coach.

Q.   Because she achieved so much so young, so that can also teach you things about the mind, as well. 
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   Of course.   She's teaching me a lot to stay more calm, to take, to see the ball better, and to turn the shoulders better, technical things, many things she can help me with.

Q.   So how much contact do you have with Martina at the moment?   Obviously not on the road, but when you go back to the academy or... 
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   Of course when I go back to the academy she is always there, and when I need help I just ask her and she always help me a lot. 

Q.   And you can talk to her on the phone?
YULIA PUTINTSEVA:   Yeah, I can ask her, message her, Can you please come and play with me?   She's like, Sure, what time?   And it's really nice from her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT