ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2019
Anna Karolina Schmiedlova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/A.K. Schmiedlova   
0-6, 7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  You just played against the No. 1 player, so can you look back to this game, please.  
ANNA KAROLINA SCHMIEDLOVA: Well, I think everybody saw that I was really close.  And it did hurt that I lose today because, well, I have so many chances.   
As you said, she's No. 1 in the world and amazing player.  I admire her so much.   
Well, I think I could win today, but maybe next time.   
 Q.  You served for the victory a couple of times in that second set.  
ANNA KAROLINA SCHMIEDLOVA: Yes.   
 Q.  What do you think made the difference in those two games, especially the second time?  You were a couple points from winning.  
ANNA KAROLINA SCHMIEDLOVA: Well, I don't know.  I had many chances, as I said.  Both games were pretty long.  And until then, I served pretty well.  And there are a few deuces in the -- when I was 6-5 up.   
And I don't know.  It's not easy to win against No. 1.  I guess I felt it, and I didn't make it to the finish, I guess.  It's not easy for my head and to beat her, you know.   
 Q.  Did you get the sense that she was able to play a little better at that point?  That she raised her game, too, or do you feel it was more about what you weren't able to do?  
ANNA KAROLINA SCHMIEDLOVA: I think she played few good shots there, and she started to play better.   
But also it could go other way, and I think if I -- I don't know.  I definitely could win one of those two games.  And, well, I think it was good match anyway.  At least it was, as I said, good match and well-played for me, I guess.   
 Q.  Is there a point where you'll be able to look at this quite positively and say, I got to the point of serving for the match against the world No. 1, rather than, Oh, my goodness, I didn't win.  
ANNA KAROLINA SCHMIEDLOVA: Well, I hope I will, but not now, I guess.  I wanted to win.  I wanted to win some matches here because I really like playing here in Roland Garros.  And it was, I mean, the toughest draw that I could get.  But at least I can see that I can play against everyone.  And she's also just a human and that I could beat her definitely.   
But now it's -- also it hurts a little bit, but, I mean, I guess it was a good match and maybe I will take some positives from it.   
 Q.  Well, let's go back to the good part of the match, 6-0.  I mean, you were swinging, you were hitting, you were finding the corners.  Describe those moments when you were pulverizing the world No. 1.  
ANNA KAROLINA SCHMIEDLOVA: Yeah, I think, yeah, it might be true.   
Well, it was important for me to start well.  And I know it's going to be really difficult.  Well, she's No. 1.  But she made also few mistakes and maybe she didn't serve as well as later in the match.   
But definitely I was happy with my game.  I was happy how I served.  And I was happy that she -- that I played also aggressive and I didn't let her play her game all the time so...  Thank you.   
 Q.  Do you think that the differences in the first set and the end of the second set and third set, is it you getting nervous or was your opponent Naomi raising her level?  
ANNA KAROLINA SCHMIEDLOVA: I think both, and I think you could see that she's No. 1 there and that she's a great player, that she started to play better.  And I had maybe a little bit too much respect or I -- I don't know.  I got a little bit nervous.   
But as I said before, I think it was a good match, and I'll try to take some positives from it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT