UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2011
Emmanuel Acho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. As a defensive guy, how do you kind of get ready for BYU and offensively what are they going to bring to the table?
 EMMANUEL ACHO: I think they're very skilled offensively. I think one of the coordinators used to coordinate at Tech, so in preparing for that, in preparing for Tech you know what they bring to the table. They have a very experienced offensive line and a great quarterback, so now we've just got to get back in the film room. It's going to be a hard-fought game, just got to get back in the film room and prepare. 

 Q. What does it mean to you to play a team like that, especially non-conference? 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's a big test. You like to have that kind of test early on in the season so you can see where you are as a team. You know what I mean? If you don't challenge yourself early on, you might have a false sense of hope, a false sense of reality. We have to prepare well, and it's going to be a big game, going to be a big test for us, but after that game we'll kind of know where we stand a little bit. 

 Q. How did you feel like the defense played Saturday?
 EMMANUEL ACHO: I think we played average or slightly above average. I mean, in watching the film there were so many places we could improve. We never let them in our end zone, which was great, but we only played halfway to our potential. So a little bit disappointing, but we have a lot of room to go. 

 Q. Is it a concern at all that they seemed to have some kind of running in the middle of the defense? 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Not really, because in watching the film, when they did that, it was off a missed assignment. So not really too concerned about that. 

 Q. Have you seen tape on Heats, the BYU quarterback, and what he brings?
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Not really. I've seen some of his statistics. I got to watch the first half of the Ole Miss - BYU game and saw some of him from last year, but I've heard a lot about him, haven't been able to see firsthand. But when you hear about a great young quarterback you've just got to try to do something to confuse him, try to do something to get in his head. So I am going to try to watch some film, see his tendencies and just go off that.

 Q. Do you kind of assume if he's the quarterback at BYU he's pretty good based on their history?
 EMMANUEL ACHO: That is kind of an assumption you make and you have to be prepare for him to be the best. But at the same time that just makes you step your game up one more notch and that just makes us work that much harder.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT