UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Emmanuel Acho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. How exciting is it to be in this game?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's extremely exciting all the work we've put in all season, and finally for us to see the dividends. It's going to be a great experience, an opportunity. And for me to be able to play with my brother on a big stage is going to be great.  
  
  Q. Have your parents bought you any Christmas presents?   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: No this was the Christmas present, I guess.   
  
  Q. Talk about motivation for this team from the underdog role and whatever. But from a defensive perspective, all Big 12 teams and All American teams come down to one guy on Texas defense? Do you guys take offense to that?   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: No, we try not to focus on I guess the publicity as far as individualism. We try to focus more on how the defense is doing as a whole. So as long as we're doing well collectively, we don't care too much about the individual stats.   
 They're nice and all, but they don't have that much effect on the on the field performance?  
  
  Q. You're not watching film to prepare you guys for defenses, Coach Brown said they're a lot of alike?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: I heard it's more our offenses that are similar. But I just hear that our defenses are really similar, and I'm sure the schemes are as well.   
  
  Q. (No microphone)?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's a really good challenge. Really exciting. Always good to play against the best. It's going to be fun to go up against one of the best running backs in the nation.   
  
  Q. Are you a guy that takes more to bring him down from what you understand?   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Coach has really emphasized adding to the ball and trying to get all our jerseys around the ball to bring him down. So just like in any other game with any other back, you want to make sure you're hustling after every play to bring them down.   
 With him especially he's a very tough runner, so we'll always try to make sure we're going to rally to the ball?  
  
  Q. Talk about the ball preparation, kind of fundamental stuff. How different is it now going through the fundamental stuff as opposed to August and early September when you're going through the fundamentals?   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's always difficult when you have so much time off not to lose your fundamentals. So at first it kind of seems repetitive. But when you look at the bigger picture, and you start to see that you took a bad step or your eye control is off. You can see how important it is to make sure you get the fundamentals down.   
 I guess when you go into August you're a little more anxious and you're ready for the season to kick off. And you know you've got a big game ahead of you.  
  
  Q. Is it a chance to prove the Big 12 defense can hang with the best of the best?   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It really is. We talked about the SEC defense, and now on this national stage, it's going to be an opportunity more than anything.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
   
   
   
   
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT