UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2011
Emmanuel Acho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Emmanuel Acho.   
  
  Q. What are your socks?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's a compression sleeve, not a sock.   
  
  Q. What do you think the identity of the team is moving forward?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: We have to be resilient. We have six games left. Have to take them one game at a time, be prepared for each and every opponent, starting this week with Kansas, make sure we get this W, roll on from there.   
  
  Q. Been a while since you tasted one with the schedule, OU, O State, anxious in practice?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Being a senior, I know I don't have too many college football days left. I'm always anxious. On top of that, we haven't tasted victory in three, four weeks. I'm anxious to get back out there.  
  
  Q. Different from a Kansas team than what you last saw a couple years ago.   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Most definitely. This team is a lot more run oriented. Runningbacks averaging four yards a carry. They've had a tough schedule. They're going to come in here ready to fight. We have to prepare ourselves for that.   
  
  Q. What has been the attitude the last couple of the games, Fozzy returns a kickoff for a field goal?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: We have such high standards for ourselves as a defense. We feel we have so much talent we have to play at that level. We're not playing at number one in the nation level right now. That's what we're striving to get through. We worked a lot during our bye week to get better at assignments and whatnot.   
 Have to continue to improve so we can capitalize on special teams breaks, offensive breaks.   
  
  Q. Fozzy's returns inspire you. You're back on the field immediately after a score.   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Gives us new life. He's done a great job of doing that the last two games. When it looks like we might be down and out, that might be the knock-out punch, Fozzy comes out and gets us back up. That's been great. I hope he can keep it up.   
 I'm excited for him.   
  
  Q. What has this season been like at this point especially getting to know this team.   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's been a whirlwind, so many new things, so much going on with the adjustments to the coaching staff, position changes. It's been an interesting season.   
 But when you're in it, you just focus on the next task. For me, that's making sure we beat Kansas. That's all I can worry about. Coach Diaz says control what you can control. I can control making sure the defense goes out and plays well.   
  
  Q. There's been a tendency to give up the big run. How big a concern is that?   
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's not too big of a concern. It all comes down to gap assignment, being in the right place at the right time. We did some things schematically that left us susceptible to it. At the same time had we been where we should have been, we could have handled it well. We got to get better at that, better at containing the explosive play. It will reward us in the long run.   
  
  Q. Fozzy says it's a peculiar mix on the team, young and old. How does it compare to when you were young on this team?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: When I was young, I feel like there were a lot of guys in the middle category, a lot of sophomores and juniors with a lot of experience. Guys like Shipley, (indiscernible), they were a junior. Now I feel like it's freshmen and old guys, freshmen and seniors, with a little sprinkle of sophomore and junior here and there.   
 It's been interesting, funny for me being on the old side of the spectrum, trying to make sure I play my best for the guys in the middle.  
  
  Q. Where did the middle guys go?  
 EMMANUEL ACHO: They disappeared somewhere around the line.   
 Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT