UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2011
Emmanuel Acho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Is this a game where you feel like --
 EMMANUEL ACHO: I think this is a game that tells you a lot about yourself. It tells you a lot about, one, the character of your team and the maturity of your team and just the quality of your team because there's going to be a lot of momentum swings over the course of this game and you just have to keep fighting whether you're up 21, down 21 or whatever it may be. Just have to keep fighting.

 Q. How much are you looking forward to --
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Not really. I just really want to win. So just I'll worry about what we need to fix after the game. 
 At this point in time, it's just worry about preparation for the game and you know, it does tell you a lot about yourself but that's why you try to fix your weaknesses before you find them out. You try to fix them in week one, week two, week three, week four, so when you come to this game you are not exposed.

 Q. Inaudible. 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: I would not say it's a premature claim. I think that we are playing well. I think I can make that statement confidently. 
 But at the same time, college football is week-to-week, and so you have to play well every Saturday, because one week you can be down and out and the next week you're on top. So we have to keep the train rolling and we have to keep things moving.

 Q. Their up-tempo offense, does it make it more special --
 EMMANUEL ACHO: I think they have perfected it. I think they have it down pat. And it's something you can't formulate or simulate over the course of the week. Your scout team won't give you the same look. So you just have to watch film and prepare for it so when you do face it, you won't get caught off guard.

 Q. How well do you know their offense? 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Personally? 

 Q. As a team. 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: As a team I think it's my job to make sure the defense is ready to face it but this is my last go around, so I feel like I'm extremely prepared. I've already watched game tape, and so I'm going to be ready. I just have to make sure that the entire defense is, as well and that's where I think our leadership comes into play and I think we have great leaders on this defense.

 Q. Talk about your feelings going into this and how special this week is. 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's always hectic and always wild. Personally I'm from Dallas and I live about 15, 20 minutes away from the Cotton Bowl itself and watched this game growing up and now playing in it and my last year playing in it. It's going to be wild and emotional, so you have to put that aside for 60 minutes and focus.

 Q. Talk about the walk down the tunnel and how special that is. 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: The walk down the tunnel is probably the craziest part, besides looking at the way the stadium is split, we always walk down the OU side, so you just hear, "You suck, you suck 18," and you're like, you haven't even seen me play yet. I could suck for all you know (Laughter).
 It's a fun atmosphere and I'm ready for it. 

 Q. You how critical is it for you guys to get pressure on Landry? 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: I think that's huge. I think that's it the difference in the game is that Landry knows where he's going before the snap, he's incredible quarterback and so you have to make sure you keep him flustered. He's such a good quarterback; he's not a rookie and he's not going to make those veteran mistakes. One guy is not going to throw him off. 
 We have to make sure we get after him and the front seven and our secondary holds up in the back end.

 Q. Besides winning, what is the difference this year compared to last year?
 EMMANUEL ACHO: Team chemistry. I feel like I can talk from a defensive standpoint is that we all get along, we all like each other and we all play for each other and credit to Coach Diaz, he does a good job of making sure you play for one another. And we have been playing together for so long, this is our fourth year all together, that we all get along and all get along on the field and off the field we are friends, as well. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: That's some vivid imagery. Whenever you lose a game like this it always leaves a bitter taste in your mouth, and so much intensity and rivalry around it -- kick it in the face, one away to put it I guess.

 Q. The freshman in the last few months, wide-eyed --
 EMMANUEL ACHO: That could be a problem you have with freshmen. This is one of those games where leadership plays a big role, and as a senior leader I have to make sure freshmen are not surprised by anything, and it's a big focus this week is not to be surprised. They are going to be fast and big and strong, but don't are surprised by any of that. Just expect it so that when you come in, it doesn't faze you, and it when it comes it doesn't faze.

 Q. What makes you think you guys can win this?
 EMMANUEL ACHO: I think we have a great coaching staff. I think we have an incredible coaching staff and they have proved that over the first four weeks of the season; and you just have to have leaders, have leaders that are willing to fight for this team and I think we have that. 

 Q. Everybody talks about Landry; what about their running game?
 EMMANUEL ACHO: They do a great job of keeping you off screen, they throw the bubble screen, they throw the hurry-up and go and they take a shot, and so just when you're ready to play the bubble screen or deep ball, they are running a stretch or a toss or they are running something. They do a great job of keeping you off-balance and you have to be prepared to stop all aspects of the game. 

 Q. Is it even more special, 4-0? 
 EMMANUEL ACHO: This is how you write the game up, it's a perfect scenario, both teams undefeated, both teams Top 15, Top-10. You couldn't ask for a getter game: 11 o'clock, national audience, great atmosphere, great weather. This is how you dream it up and this is why you play the game. 

 Q. The Top-10 ranking --
 EMMANUEL ACHO: It's one of those things you've got to put aside, because a week from now you could be asking me how the Top-25 ranking is. 
 So it's one of those things do you away with, you don't worry about rankings. Rankings don't matter until January 7 or whatever the last game of the season is. So I feel like we are more a more mature team and so we won't let that affect us in any way.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT