FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2005
Tom McKnight
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Tom, share your thoughts on your day today, looking ahead to tomorrow.
TOM McKNIGHT:  Today, I just wanted to get off to a good start.  After I birdied the 1st hole, that was a pretty good start.  You know, I just wanted to hit a lot of fairways and greens and see if I couldn't make a few putts.  I hit two really bad iron shots.  I hit one on 9, I hit one on 14, bogeyed both holes.  The last hole, made bogey.  I really didn't think I hit a bad shot.  I hit a great shot off the tee.  Hit what I thought was an iron.  It was going to hit on the front portion of the green, kind of skipped back, flew.  Pushed it a little bit.  When it went as far as it did, I was in trouble.

Otherwise, I played pretty solid.  Made two or three good saves, made some birdies.  When I made a mistake, seemed like I'd come back and make a birdie to kind of get that back.  Overall, it was a pretty solid day.  I'm just disappointed, the last two holes, I would have loved to birdied 17 and parred 18 to finish it off.  Especially after I hit such a good drive over 17.  Besides that, I feel pretty happy about a birdie to kind of get that back.
THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit on 10?
TOM McKNIGHT:  Hit a sand wedge.
THE MODERATOR:  Then on 12, 16 feet on the par 3.
TOM McKNIGHT:  Hit a 6 iron.
THE MODERATOR:  What happened on 14?
TOM McKNIGHT:  Hit a really good drive.  I was kind of in between clubs.  I should have hit a 6 iron.  It was actually probably between a 6  and 7 iron distance.  Because the wind was in our face, I even went to a 5 to make sure I would be safe.  I got sloppy with the swing, blocked it right up on the hill, had no chance to get it up and down.  It was a good 5.  It was a good bogey after I hit it where I did.  Kind of like 18.
THE MODERATOR:  15, 11 footer.
TOM McKNIGHT:  15, I hit a 6 iron.
THE MODERATOR:  Then on 18, you said you pushed?
TOM McKNIGHT:  I hit a 6 iron.  I was about 190 something to the hole.  We were a little downwind.  I just couldn't make myself hit a 7.  We even thought about maybe hitting a 5 iron.  I hit the 6, just hit it really solid.  I was trying to hit the right of the hole.  I pushed it further right enough to where it had a horrible lie to the right of the green.  Had to hit a flopshot out.  Caught a little bit too much ball, went over the green.  Made a great up and down to save bogey there.
THE MODERATOR:  How about 9?
TOM McKNIGHT:  9, I hit a good drive there.  Had 7 iron to the green.  Just got way ahead of it.  Just came up short in the bunker.  Didn't get it up and down.
THE MODERATOR:  Your birdie on 1, length of the putt?
TOM McKNIGHT:  I don't know, 12 or 15 feet.  Hit a good driver, 8 iron into that green.
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  So many players atop the leaderboard, what is your game plan going into tomorrow?
TOM McKNIGHT:  Just playing the golf course.  That's what you have to do out here every day because when you    you can't play the other players.  You can't do anything about what they're going to do.  I just want to go play the golf course and see what I can do on the course.  That's kind of what my mindset has been each day.

I was hoping to have four rounds in the 60s really to kind of see what that would do.  That's one reason I was disappointed with the bogey on 18 today.  But, you know, it's what I can do.  My biggest    worst enemy out here is myself.  If I can just go out there and play the way I can play, whatever happens happens.

If I play good and lose by five shots, that's fine.  If I go out there and play poorly, I'll be disappointed.  I've put myself into position to do something.  We'll just see what happens.
Q.  Do you scoreboard watch at all?  Will you try not to think about playing with Gil Morgan and Hale Irwin?
TOM McKNIGHT:  I don't really watch the scoreboard much.  Every now and then I may look at it, glance at it, especially on the Back 9.  If there's a crucial situation the last couple holes or something, maybe.  I don't think I even looked at it today because it didn't really make any difference.
Q.  Will you think at all tomorrow, if you're paired with Hale or Gil, do you think about that stuff?
TOM McKNIGHT:  No.  I mean, I'm just    I'm around these guys now.  I've been out here now for half a year.  The guys have been great.  The camaraderie is great.  Whoever I'm paired with, I'm going to have a good time.  I'm just enjoying myself, no matter who it is.  Whether it's Hale, Gil, Dana.  They've all been very nice to me.  I'm excited to play with any of them.  I'm excited to have a spot tomorrow and have a tee time.
Q.  When you turned pro early on in your golf career, probably right out of college, then convenience stores, came back, was it a dream to come back and play pro golf again?
TOM McKNIGHT:  It's something I always thought about.  It wasn't like I stopped playing golf.  I played amateur golf and did that kind of like it was two jobs.  I always was committed to doing that.  You know, I like the competition.  It got to be a point where this is another opportunity for really good competition and the chance to see what I can do.  It only made sense for me to do it.  It was good timing for me and my family and business wise.  It's really a dream come true for me to be out here and have this opportunity.
Q.  Is T a boy or a girl?
TOM McKNIGHT:  T is a boy.  He's the third.
THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Tom.
TOM McKNIGHT:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT