U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2017
Monica Vaughn
Bailey Tardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys have played a lot of USGA match play.  Where does this match rank among the most competitive you've played?
MONICA VAUGHN: Well, today we were 8-under I think as a team, and you know, I guess we kind of just thought we had it in the bag, and that was a little immature of us because they really came out strong, and I mean, they came in clutch -- I think we had three holes with birdies.  They just played some really solid golf today.
Q. You guys made eagle on 4 --
BAILEY TARDY: I don't know why we played that hole into the wind the last couple days, so Monica took like a very aggressive line and it ended up being perfectly in the fairway, and I was a little bit in the rough, and we both decided to go for it.  I think we had 160, 161 to the hole, and I hit 7-iron, and I mean, cranked it.  The pin is in the front, and I went all the way on the back of the green, and I think I drained, it was probably like a 45- or 50-footer for eagle.  That was pretty fun.  I think that kind of got the momentum rolling on the front nine for sure, but those girls were good.  They stuck it very close.  We conceded a lot of birdie putts to them because of how close it was.  They put on a good fight.
Q. I heard you skipped it across the water?
MONICA VAUGHN: I did.  Not on purpose.  Made birdie, too.
BAILEY TARDY: I don't know, yeah, I've been hitting this little low, running 3-wood off the ground, and I didn't hit -- I wasn't really meaning to do that, but I took like, again, a super aggressive line, and it just happened to hit -- it should have gone in the water, but yeah, I ended up hitting a pretty good shot in there and decided to putt first because Monica had a straighter putt, and ended up making it.
Q. How long was the putt?
MONICA VAUGHN: 15 foot or something?
BAILEY TARDY: Yeah, it was probably like 15 feet.  But it was cool.  We had a great time out there.  Definitely a stressful match, but I think that just prepares us for the next --
Q. That's my next question.  Do you think it helps to start with one like that because at some point you're probably going to have to play one like that to win this thing.  Is it good to get tested right away?
BAILEY TARDY: Yeah, I think so.  I mean, it's nice to see all the golf course because we may have to do that tomorrow, as much as we probably didn't want to play 18 today.  I mean, we did hit 18 tee shots.
MONICA VAUGHN: Yeah, I thought it was good because if we have a match tomorrow, if we win big tomorrow or something, it just kind of eases our stress a little bit.  It's nice to have a stressful match under our belt right off the bat because, you know, it prepares us for down the stretch if we end up making it to the finals.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT