U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2015
Bailey Tardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Congrats on the win.  BAILEY TARDY: Thank you.   Q.  Good to have the first one out of the way this week?  BAILEY TARDY: Yes.  Slow start, but it was fun.  I'm good friends with Dylan.  I played with her a couple weeks ago at North and South during stroke play, so I knew it was going to be a good match from the get-go.  I was the one who messed up on the front nine and she didn't, so that's how the match -- I got 3-down really quick.  Yeah, that's about what happened.   Q.  So you're 3-down; how do you work your way out of that?  BAILEY TARDY: I was sitting on the tee box of 5, I believe, and just like, I have no confidence in anything.  She teed off first and hooked it, and it had a chance of going out of bounds, but the rough is so thick here, it usually would just stop and not go anywhere.  So I just wanted to hit the fairway.  I hit a decent shot.  I'm long enough to reach that hole in two, and I knew she was in trouble so she couldn't reach it in two, either, so that kind of was a changing point, I guess, but I ended up not winning that hole.  I missed like a three-footer for birdie.  But that was really where it all changed, I think, my momentum really.  Yeah, from there I started winning some holes.  I told myself I wanted to try to like get 1-down through nine, and I did that, and I mean, you can't ask for anything more than that.  I was 3-down, so just tried to keep a positive attitude out there.   Q.  You're a pretty long hitter and Dylan is a pretty long hitter.  What's it like when you step to the tee and think if that's your advantage on a lot of players, you don't have that advantage on Dylan?  BAILEY TARDY: Right.  I don't know, I guess I don't really think about much when I think about my distance.  I guess I usually have an advantage because I hit second.  I've been hitting my 3-wood so much better than my driver recently, so the back nine I might have hit two drivers, I think, and like on 18 I out-drove her with my 3-wood.  I don't know, I guess my distance definitely does have an advantage.  I mean, I reached 10 in two and I kind of doubt a lot of people are doing that. I don't know, I guess it gives me a little advantage.  I don't know.   Q.  Is that the only par-5 you can hit in two here?  BAILEY TARDY: And 5.   Q.  Did you say you did hit it in two today or you did not?  BAILEY TARDY: I did.  Well, I was just a little bit short, but I hit hybrid into the green.   Q.  What are your thoughts on this golf course?  BAILEY TARDY: It's really tight.  I feel like you get punished a lot easier if you just miss your shot a little bit.  I guess you probably should try to work the ball, like use the entire fairway.  If you want to hit a draw, then aim more right and curve it back.  But like I said, with my driver, I just try to aim down the middle, and if it goes one way or goes the other way, I hope it hits the fairway. Yeah, the rough is really thick.  I feel like more powerful hitters it's easier to get out of the rough because you can impact the ball better and you're hitting an iron versus a wood for some players.  I mean, that's about it.  It's kind of short.  It's not a very long golf course.  Usually we'll have a par-3 out here that's over 200 yards, and I think the longest one might be like 180, and it's downhill.  It's not too bad.   Q.  Mom is caddying?  BAILEY TARDY: Yes.   Q.  Was your caddie debut the North and South?  BAILEY TARDY: She caddied last year.   KIM TARDY: I caddied last year but I got fired.   Q.  What was your offense?  KIM TARDY: She was bogeying.   BAILEY TARDY: I bogeyed like five holes in a row.   KIM TARDY: But --   BAILEY TARDY: She was re-hired on 13.   Q.  Did you go out of the ropes and come back?  KIM TARDY: No, I was so embarrassed.  I'm at least tending the pin -- I was walking beside her, and she goes, leave.  I go, I am not leaving you, and then she said, I'm sorry, Mom, will you be my caddie again, I'm on the 13th hole.   Q.  What round was this, do you remember?  KIM TARDY: Second day of stroke play.   BAILEY TARDY: No, it wasn't.  It was during match play.   KIM TARDY: It was the second day of stroke play because you were worried you weren't going to make the cut, and I'm like, calm down, crazy.   BAILEY TARDY: I made the cut.   KIM TARDY: Was that the first time I caddied for you?   BAILEY TARDY: No, she's caddied in my qualifiers, but she flies out there.   KIM TARDY: The cart is much better than carrying that bag, I can tell you that.   Q.  It was probably hot.  BAILEY TARDY: Yeah, it was hot.   Q.  What hole were you fired on?  KIM TARDY: 10.   BAILEY TARDY: No, it was 11.  I pushed my bag.  I would know.   KIM TARDY: It was on the green of 10.   BAILEY TARDY: Okay, 11 tee box.   KIM TARDY: Because she bogeyed 10, and then she played 11, 12, 13 hired me back.  We have this great bond now.  I know how to handle her, she knows how to handle me.   Q.  Are you a golfer?  KIM TARDY: No.   BAILEY TARDY: She doesn't know anything about golf.   Q.  Are you picking some up, though, at least, kind of?  KIM TARDY: I know a lot, but I can't tell her anything about her game.  I don't know what club to use --   BAILEY TARDY: She can't read greens.   KIM TARDY: I can't use the range finder.  I call it the viewfinder.  She gets mad.   BAILEY TARDY: It's a range finder.   KIM TARDY: But it works.   BAILEY TARDY: We make a good team.   KIM TARDY: And she's leaving me next week.   Q.  When did you move to Georgia?  BAILEY TARDY: I start school on Monday.  Move-in day was yesterday.   Q.  Are you like all packed back at home?  BAILEY TARDY: Everything is in our living room.  But it's only like an hour away from home, so I can easily come up nights.   KIM TARDY: I'm just going to come up every day and bring a few more items that she forgot.   Q.  How long is the drive from Norcross?  BAILEY TARDY: Hour and 15.   Q.  That's not bad.  Okay, now, you must be pretty excited because you're part of this big freshman class, and Georgia needs --  BAILEY TARDY: Yes, we're really excited.  I think me, Rinko and Jillian are really excited to be a part of the Georgia team.  For Rinko and I, it's been about three years since we've been committed, so I know we're both excited to --   KIM TARDY: And Jillian is happy to come south from Ohio.   BAILEY TARDY: I think Jillian is moving in tomorrow, so I think Rinko is going home tomorrow, so she'll be moved in soon.  It's going to be so much fun.  A lot of my friends are going to Athens, not just to golf, but from my school.   Q.  Are you rooming with a friend rather than a teammate?  BAILEY TARDY: No, I'm rooming with three soccer players.   Q.  Is that random?  BAILEY TARDY: Kind of, yes and no.  I'm good friends with one of them -- well, I've met her once, but my good friend suggested that I room with her, and then she just had two other soccer players, so I jumped on that bus.   Q.  Are you still taking lessons from Chan Reeves?  BAILEY TARDY: Yep.   Q.  How long have you been with him?  BAILEY TARDY: Three years, four years.   Q.  How did you hook up with him?  BAILEY TARDY: He's the pro out of my golf course.   Q.  You play Atlanta Athletic Club?  That's your home course?  BAILEY TARDY: Yes.   Q.  Y'all are members?  BAILEY TARDY: Yes.   Q.  That's a cool course.  BAILEY TARDY: Yeah, not a bad track.   Q.  You've gotten to see some good tournaments go through.  Do you go out and watch and volunteer when they do?  BAILEY TARDY: I caddied during the Am for Zach Healy.  He goes to Georgia now.  He just finished his freshman year.   KIM TARDY: And then when the PGA was there she was only 15 and they wouldn't let her, but the rest of the family did.   Q.  Did you have a specific player you tried to get -- they wouldn't let you volunteer?  BAILEY TARDY: No, I was too young.  Well, I turned 15 during the tournament and they said if I was turning 16 then I could, but oh, well.  It was fun watching.  It's cool to see -- like they shut down our golf course for two weeks ahead of the PGA when they came, and you walk on and there's grandstands everywhere.  It doesn't even look the same.  When it was over they kept the grandstands up for probably like four days, and you just see everything, and it's weird.   Q.  Did you get to play when they were still up?  BAILEY TARDY: I don't think -- I was so young.  They never let juniors out when you're under 15 or 16.  It's hard for us to get out.  Not anymore.  I guess they realize that we're good golfers and we're not going to stop.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT