U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
July 1, 2012
Anthony Ervin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ANTHONY ERVIN:   Let me walk you through it.   I touched the wall and then I looked at the scoreboard, but I couldn't tell what happened.   I wasn't sure what happened, and then Nathan looked at me and said "You made it!"  
So it was overwhelming relief.   I guess I got a new personal best time, so continuing to reach those goals.   
It was just great to find out, see some of the my friends, you know, I was able to pick them out because they were wearing black shirts with hot pink, and they were like, "Cullen, Yeah!"   And then I look up and see my Cal Bears wearing gold and blue.   That's what I experienced.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ANTHONY ERVIN:   I've been feeling gratitude all week up to the moment that I had walked out there.   I was thinking about all the people that have been through my life, especially the ones that stayed.   First, let me start at the beginning:   My coach that taught me to swim before I was a teenager, she is here.   
My club coach that developed me in high school into being the outstanding college recruit I was, he's here, and I got to see him.   That guy, tough coach, but he instilled a spirit in me that I need.   
Competition isn't meant to be easy, it's supposed to be challenging.   If it wasn't for him, I don't know if I would have been able to do any of it.   
   
 Q.   Are you emotions different this time?  
ANTHONY ERVIN:   Than last time?   That guy helped me reach the top, and when I insisted on landsliding myself down, he was like‑‑ he was there for me.   But at the end of it, I knew that he didn't just care about Anthony Ervin the swimmer; he cared about Anthony Ervin the person, and that means more than ever.   (Away from mic.)  
Coming back, how about Nick Coulter‑‑ it was about trying to improve and get back to where I was, attention to detail, and I certainly have gotten this body, as broken up and as weak as it was into Olympic caliber shape without him.   Teri McKeever, I couldn't sing her praises enough for what she has done for girls in this country and the world, actually.   
She inherited a very fragile, mentally‑‑ is the best word for it kind of persona, and she brought back what it was like to swim for fun and enjoy it myself.   I was enjoying seeing the kids swim, because I was coaching, but enjoying to do it myself, she brought that back to me so I have to give her credit.   
And Dave Durden is a chief builder, a hero general.   He brought me into that team; he didn't have to do that.   It has been incredible to work with him.   His knowledge, getting me tuned up for the water, his ability to keep me grounded when emotions may want to take me away as I started competing in meets again.   
All my coaches, those are just the people that are most relatively important to my swimming training.   I said as best I can what I can.   My mouth is now drying up because I haven't had anything to drink.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ANTHONY ERVIN:   I just want to have a good time.   I just want to keep this fun train chugging.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ANTHONY ERVIN:   It's‑‑ I mean the medal is up there.   It's there, you know, whether I can land one or not, I hope so, I'm going to try my best.   I'm not controlling what anyone else is doing.   There are incredible swimmers around the world that will be there.   All I can promise is I'm going to do what I can.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT