ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2018
Ruben Bemelmans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. BEMELMANS/Y. Bhambri   
6-4, 6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  It was quite a special match, which was quite difficult at the outset for each player, and then all of a sudden you had nine games in a row.  
RUBEN BEMELMANS: Yeah, it was quite tough to find a solution, because the opponent was returning quite fast.  He used my serve and my speed.  It was hard to find solutions at the beginning.   
I think that in the end, especially after being up two sets Love, my opponent just gave up and it was easier to win games on his serve.   
At first, there were ups and downs as I was quite nervous, and then I became more calm.  I saw that I had to make him move around from left to right.   
There were too many ups and downs at first, but then I managed better, and I was there when needed.   
 Q.  For the addition to 2018, you had things to explain.  What does it change for you?  
RUBEN BEMELMANS: Winning points.  It wasn't planned.  When I came to Roland, I had no expectations whatsoever.  As far as I'm concerned, the French Open is wonderful and it's a roller coaster of emotions, as you said.   
On Friday, I had a huge disappointment.  And then, on Saturday, I was delighted that they told me that I was a lucky loser.  And today I have a first victory in the French Open in the main draw.   
I knew that the draw was ideal against players who are not used to clay court, and that's why I took it with both hands.   
 Q.  You're quite calm.  You kept calm until the end.  At the end, you didn't think about it too much?  
RUBEN BEMELMANS: Yes, I remained calm from the outside -- maybe this is what you saw -- but inside I was quite nervous as during the quallies.   
But the last round helped me to manage better my nervousness today, and it helped me against the opponent.  He was quite aggressive.  Very close to the line.  He had no rhythm.  It was still different opponent today.   
 Q.  There's lot of successes in the Belgian side, five to six.  What is going on this year?  
RUBEN BEMELMANS: We're winning, basically.  It's the right timing in terms of our shape and fitness for the whole country.  This is the way it is.   
 Q.  I'm not sure, but during the next round there's Jack Sock, if I'm not mistaken.  Is he someone you know well?  Even if he's a great player, it's still doable?  
RUBEN BEMELMANS: Yes, indeed.  It's not Nadal.   
He's not an important seeded player, but he's still a good player.  His forehand is quite strong.  His service is good.  He's got a good kick serve.  He showed a few years ago against Nadal that he could play very well here.   
So it's still tough, but, obviously, it's doable.  There will be a match hopefully, and I'll give everything I have.  I will not drop one point.   
I know that in New York he played very well at first, and then physically he had a letdown.  So I have to be there from beginning to the end.   
 Q.  When you heard that you were lucky loser, what did you think?  Did you tell yourself, Okay, I'm lucky.  I shouldn't miss a chance like this, because it never happens when someone has your ranking?  
RUBEN BEMELMANS: This year, we had eight lucky losers.  So this helps for players who lost in the quallies.   
I thought one has to seize one's opportunity, especially that I played against Bhambri.  I'm playing against Bhambri, and he's not prepared for the clay court.  This is why I had to show everything.   
 Q.  Now you should buy a lottery ticket; right?  
RUBEN BEMELMANS: Well, you know, it's all about the draw.  I seized an opportunity, and I was just lucky.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT