DAVIS CUP FINAL: BELGIUM VS GREAT BRITAIN
November 27, 2015
Johan Van Herck
Ruben Bemelmans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MURRAY/R. Bemelmans   
6-3, 6-2, 7-5   
Belgium - 1   
Great Britain - 1   
An interview with:   
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK   
RUBEN BEMELMANS   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Ruben, did you enjoy the atmosphere in that third set?  Seemed to get very lively at the end there.  
RUBEN BEMELMANS: Yeah, no, I think it was, yeah, an exciting game.  The crowd was behind me.  They were cheering for me.  Of course, it's a great feeling that you play at home.   
But, yeah, of course, it's a little bit of deception [sic] that I couldn't have done better.   
 Q.  Johan, I know you're not going to tell us who your doubles team tomorrow is yet.  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: I don't even know (smiling).   
 Q.  Is it a possibility that you'll play Goffin-Darcis or Goffin-Bemelmans?  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: That's a possibility, yes, as is all the other options.  But that's a possibility, yes.   
 Q.  There seemed to be quite a lot of tension towards the end.  Andy Murray was docked a point; you were given a warning.  Can you elaborate on the sort of tension that surrounded that last set.  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: I mean, it's a Davis Cup Final.  About the warnings, I think ITF made it clear to us before the matches that they would be very severe on verbal obscenity.  I think it's difficult to say if Andy said something or not, but we were warned before they were going to be very severe about that.   
The tension, I think it's normal.  He wanted to win in three sets.  We wanted to go on.  We felt like Ruben was getting better in the match.   
Okay, it's a Davis Cup Final.  I think there was tension, but I think it was still in a respectful way for each other.  That's sport at a high level.  I don't see any problems there.   
 Q.  Johan, how worried were you after the first two sets of Goffin against Edmund?  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: A lot.  I was very worried.  Didn't expect to be there.  But, okay, it's a good thing about Davis Cup, it's best of five sets.  We knew if David could find his game, he could win three sets in a row.  But he had to get the tension off and he had to get his feet moving.  Luckily for us he did.  But I was very, very worried because I think Kyle took the chances he got.   
Luckily for us, David could turn it around.   
 Q.  Captain, I'd like to know what do you think about the surface after you saw these two matches?  Goffin and Murray on Sunday, do you think this is a proper surface?  He made a lot of winning dropshots.  Is Goffin capable to do the same?  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: It's not only about Goffin.  I think the court is very good.  I think both teams said that the court was perfect.  I am 100% behind the decision to put a clay court.   
This Davis Cup Final is not only about Murray against Goffin on Sunday.  There's tomorrow a big match.  There's another big match, a fifth match, if necessary.   
I think I'm still 100% convinced we took the right decision to play on clay.   
 Q.  Can you comment on the court, Ruben?  How is it playing?  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: I think it's very indoor gavel.  Oh, sorry (laughter).   
RUBEN BEMELMANS: It's a pretty slow clay court.  But it's not a high bounce like in Paris.  The bounces stays low.  But still the speed is pretty slow.   
You've seen a lot of rallies today.  I think, as Johan said, we are fully behind our choice of this court.   
 Q.  Johan, can I ask for clarification?  What did the referee say to you at that point in the third set when he came over to have a discussion with you?  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: When I had the discussion with the referee after the warnings?   
 Q.  Yes.  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: I said he didn't need to compensate because I feel the crowd for a Davis Cup was very respectful.  Okay, there was noise, but there will always be noise.  I didn't feel like we should get any warning or discussion about the public.  That's what I said to him.   
But that's in the heat of the game.  I think everybody's trying to talk to the referee.  Leon was looking at him.  I was looking.  It's something that happens during the match.   
 Q.  Did you receive a warning?  
CAPTAIN VAN HERCK: No, we didn't receive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT