U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 30, 2012
Jessica Hardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We have Jessica Hardy joining us.   She was the winner in tonight's 100 Meter Freestyle. 

Q.   Can you talk about the emotional component of your victory?   You've been to places that not a lot of swimmers have been.   You had such a difficult saga really after the last Trials, and you've been through so much, and to overcome it and get the victory tonight in one of your unexpected events, what was it like to do that? 
JESSICA HARDY:   I still don't believe it really happened.   I think I haven't practiced my emotions yet, it's amazing.   I'm on a different planet now, and I think that swim for me was 100% emotional; it was heart the whole time.   It wasn't so much physical capacity, just staying calm and enjoying it, I think. 
I think that's what made the difference. 

Q.   Jess, what's kept you going over the last four years when you were fighting for your career? 
JESSICA HARDY:   I think as soon as I was told I wasn't allowed to compete, it was the first thing I wanted to do again. 
And during the time I was suspended it was a lot of‑‑ I put a lot of emphasis into my training and appreciated every single second in practice, and I still do now. 
It's something that's changed in my over my career, how much I enjoy swimming in practice, and every race I get to do is fun and an opportunity, where before it could be stressful.   I think going through the heartbreak of my 100 Breast this week, rekindled that emotion, what I went through in 2008, and for a 24‑hour period I was pretty sad and upset. 
I think it brought out a better swim in me tonight, and I am definitely more surprised because of that breaststroke. 

Q.   Jessica, as far as the breaststroke, with the way it happened for you in not getting to swim your best event at the Olympics, what does it mean for you now to turn your focus to the freestyle? 
JESSICA HARDY:   It's really crazy.   In warm‑up I haven't done a single stroke of breaststroke or breaststroke kick, and I've been doing breaststroke my whole life, so it's pretty weird.   I think it's going to be good to put some emphasis into freestyle and learning that technique because I'm still green in that event, still going "best times" which I'm not doing in breaststroke and haven't done that in a while. 
So it's fun and it's a lot less stressful of a race for me, and I'm excited to get to do that this summer. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Jessica, congratulations.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT