PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 27, 2005
Victor Hanescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How tough was the crowd tonight all cheering for James; did that affect you at all? 
 
VICTOR HANESCU: It's not easy to play against for a crowd like this.  Some people here are really crazy.  Really, some of them are.  I have never seen something like this in my life, but anyway, James, he played well, I think he deserve this victory.  
 
Q.  Seemed like you had a lot of momentum after that, the tiebreaker going into the third set.  Was there something at one point where you just kind of felt it slipping away a little bit?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: After the second set?   
 
Q.  Yeah, seemed like you had momentum.
 
VICTOR HANESCU: I lost the first game in the first set, so I think this was the big moment for him because when you start with one break down, it's quite difficult in the third set, but also he played well in the next games. 
 
Q.  Were you worried that early on you got a couple of calls that didn't go your way, that were certainly borderline, some line calls.  Add that up with the sort of crowd, did you sometimes get a sense that this wasn't going to go your way tonight?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: I had some moments when the -- one was, let's say, close to the line and linesmen called it out, but this is normal, everywhere is like this.  I don't know.  No, it's normal.  Sometimes it's normal to be like this. 
 
Q.  What about the weather, did the delays  -- I noticed one time the official, the chair umpire left it up to you guys to see if you wanted to continue, it seemed.  Did that throw you off at all, just seemed like he was asking you guys?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: It was interesting in that moment it was a little bit of rain, but very little and the referee said to stop the game.  I was serving, then I was staying two minutes come back on court, it was tough.  And it was in the tiebreak it was an important moment, and also I lost the first set.  
 
Q.  Was that critical  -- I thought that was hugely critical in this match?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: It was, yes.  
 
Q.  At what point did the fans start to get to a point where it was annoying?   I was hearing -- James said he didn't hear anything negative.  I kind of did.  I don't know if it got personal.  Did that affect you at all?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: No, not really.  
 
Q.  You heard it though?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: Of course, but I am trying to -- when I am playing I am trying to be focused on the game.  I am not listening to everybody, so I knew that it's going to be like this, when you play with James here, it's normal.  Some of them are more than  -- 
 
Q.  Over the line?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: Over the line, yeah.  
 
Q.  Are you happy going into the Open with the way you are playing?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: Yes, my game, it's very good this moment.  I had a good week here in New Haven.  I improved a lot my game on hard courts, so I am happy with this, and of course I am looking forward for the Open.  I hope to win some matches there and it will be great.  
 
Q.  Was it fatigue in the third set or was it  -- what happened there that you just sort of  -- after a great second, end of the second set?
 
VICTOR HANESCU: It was also fatigue, I had some long matches this week.  Also first round it was a tough match.  And also James played some great games, great points, so  -- 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT