UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 17, 2007
Tom Zbikowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q.  What's it like at quarterback? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  I had to take the role.  I think it was a bye week or something like that, we through it in there, was thinking about using it sometime, and I thank Coach Weis for putting it in and letting me run it. 

 Q.  Were you always harping on him for that? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Well, no, I mean he knew I wanted to play there.  So I just got to thank him for giving me that opportunity.  I've been waiting awhile to get the opportunity. 

 Q.  Were you shocked, getting the run -- 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  I mean, a little bit.  But it was just fun just going through that, just that bye week.  We were getting ready for Navy, kind of threw some different stuff. 
 I was a little shocked, but he let me know a little bit before that that he was thinking about doing it.  I had to quiet down the crowd for a little bit.  I thought my crowd control was pretty good.  But you know, it was fun. 

 Q.  Talk about the emotions. 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, I mean, just what we've gone through this year and to finally get a win, you know, for us and for the fans, too, they have been supporting us all year.  It was one of the loudest I've heard that stadium just cheering up.  But as the time wound down, seeing families and seeing close friends that on the team, their families and stuff, it's a special moment. 

 Q.  What the team has gone through this year, makes it that much more special? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Coaches, all the players, we've been through some ups and downs definitely.  You get a lot closer when your back is against the wall, definitely, like a season like this.  It makes this win so much sweeter. 

 Q.  Cross your mind to throw a pass or anything? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  I was thinking about it but I didn't get a chance to warm up my arm.  If I was -- I was going to take off running or throw it as far as I could, one of the two was going to happen. 

 Q.  Great to finish the year. 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  It was a rough season but you always remember your last game, and you know, especially the last game at home. 
 And then next week, like we've been saying all week, we're just going to get back to work, watch film tomorrow and get back to work Tuesday and try to beat Stanford. 

 Q.  How strongly were you considering Nebraska? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  I was definitely pretty serious if I was offered by Nebraska pretty early, that's what they were still pretty much running, kind of an option.  That was pretty much my second choice. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, definitely, that's what was my thought process, and that I might be, you know, headed to someplace like that.  I was pretty much an offensive player my entire life.  When I got to high school, I played quarterback.  I didn't really have too much experience on defense. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  You know, I think my first year was the toughest, especially, sitting out thinking about having the ball in your hand pretty much every single play to not even playing at all, you question it, whether I made the right decision.  But definitely it was a lot of fun today. 

 Q.  Back then -- 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  I was thinking about it, you know, that that's what I wanted to do, that I wasn't cut out for playing defense. 

 Q.  But that was the right decision? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Oh, definitely. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, I think so.  It was pretty close.  I went home, just started talking with my family and friends, guys on the team.  I think that's when I first really got a glimpses of what Notre Dame was all about.  When I had like 20-some messages from all of the guys calling me just checking up on me, not even trying to get me to come back, but just worried about my future, you could feel their concern from individuals, you talk about Notre Dame people -- 

 Q.  Was there a point today that you realized it's your last game here? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, when you take that last lap, you try and enjoy it as much as possible.  You get a chance to see for the fans -- they stick around.  You get to kind of go -- I had a pretty strong contingency and a lot of people, and just to see different people from around the stadium, you want to get a chance to thank people.  Those people are thanking you for always playing. 

 Q.  Special for you? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  It definitely will be, just the people and the relationships. 

 Q.  How many people? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Oh, like a hundred people, it's ridiculous.  I don't know how we got all the tickets. 

 Q.  Can you comment on your relationship, not just you but the whole team with the student body? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Oh, definitely, they have always been supportive of us.  I've been here and then it was pretty easy, going to BCS games.  And then for them to always being there after every single game no matter win or lose, it makes you feel good about the school that you're representing. 

 Q.  Do you get frustrated when there are a couple penalties -- 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, had to go to the crowd control.  But worked it out and then, you know, just had fun with it.  That's me. 

 Q.  Did you notice the crowd reaction when you ran out there? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, they were pretty loud.  So I was trying to yell at snaps. 

 Q.  How many people knew that might happen today outside of the program? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  I mean, I told my -- (laughter) -- so, probably half -- I mean, a couple of my friends I told them there might be a chance. 

 Q.  Friends on campus? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Back home, text messages all the time.  Now they are starting to call me quarterback, not defensive player anymore. 

 Q.  Lot of texts after the game? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, I had like seven or eight just all with the word quarterback in pretty much all of them. 

 Q.  What was the difference today? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Good game plan and executing well.  I think guys just want to make sure we got this win and played hard, and we knew we would match up with them pretty well talent-wise. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  For me it will probably sink in later tonight and once the game is over next week -- they are still working on the next game coming up. 
 But when you get a chance to share a moment like that, it's always good when you get guys like Trevor and pretty much all the fifth-year guys, all the different stuff we've gone through and how much we've grown together, it will definitely be tough not being able to play here anymore. 

 Q.  The parallel talent-wise is there, but certainly the parallels, last home game of the season, was Rudy an inspiration? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Rudy?  Not really.  (Laughter) I think he was just looking in the locker room, you know, the faces of the other guys -- got to give a hand to the younger guys for understanding, trying to get a win for the older guys. 
 You know, when you're younger, it's hard to realize what it's like for a person's last game.  For the most part, they were there for us and playing hard all the way through. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  I was waiting for it one way or another.  I was hoping for that fourth touchdown and time on the clock once I got my wristband they said we were going in, and I went over to George West and told him if he fumbles, I'll never talk to him again so make sure he caught it. 

 Q.  Did you understand what was on the wristband? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, we worked on it pretty extensive during the bye week.  That was like my first introduction to it and then just the same calls as the week progressed so it wasn't too hard. 

 Q.  How often did you work on it in practice? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  It was like a period of a week, maybe just like for five six minutes after we got pretty much -- we scrimmaged a little bit with it.  Most of the guys got to rest and I was running the plays, so I was on offense, so I'd take the extra practice. 

 Q.  Can you talk about Coach Weis, the respect for him for having a moment of levity, a moment for people -- a fifth-year senior running out there at quarterback, just a little lighter? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  Yeah, I definitely think so.  You know, you've still got to remember, it's just a game.  You go out there, play every day, I mean you obviously play to win all the time but there's much worse things than losing a football game.  You know, get a chance to see -- I think some of the defensive guys were more excited.  I was pretty excited, don't get me wrong, but some of those guys were just telling me ready to go out there. 

 Q.  Is there like a snapshot from today -- I'm sure you took a little longer to take moments in when you could, but is there a snapshot that's just going to be burned in for you? 
 TOM ZBIKOWSKI:  I think seeing my mom, getting a chance to hug her right before I was taking a lap; a hundred and some family and friends up there with tee shirts on, knowing that that's who I represent every single week, along with obviously Notre Dame, too, but you represent your family pretty much every time you play.  And I wanted to let them know that I appreciate them and all of the support they have given me since I first started playing. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT