U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2017
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. CORIC/A. Zverev
3-6, 7-5, 7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How badly did you need this win, given the struggles you've had?
BORNA CORIC: I mean, of course I needed it.  You know, it's not a matter, I wouldn't die if I lost most probably.  But, of course, I mean, it's like any other match.  I want to win every match.  That's my goal.
I just went out there, I was fighting.  I gave my best.  I gave my all.  I left it all on the court.  Yeah, it was very good day.
Q. What was it that worked?
BORNA CORIC: I think we are playing quite similar tennis pretty much, only he's serving a little bit bigger than me.  So, I mean, I don't know.  In the first set, I lost that break, which I played a really, really bad game.  That was enough for him to just manage and to hold his serve because I could not get any returns in the court.
In second set, I thought I started to play better and I started to serve much better.  I was hitting the spots very good.  Then I think I was little bit lucky on 6-5, 40-Love down.  I think also he got little bit maybe sloppy.  He also thought maybe the game is already over.
Then last two sets, I mean, we were holding serves.  In the important points, I was serving very good.  I played some big points on three set points down.  That's it.
Q. How much did this mean to you, just also because you looked very satisfied, very happy, exhilarated at the end of the match.
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, like I also said, I had a rough few months.  I was struggling with my neck injury.  I was not really sure what it is.  I didn't play.  I didn't know for how long I'm going to play.  Actually when I was going to the Montreal, I wanted to also cancel it.  But I went there and the physios helped me a lot.
So, yeah, then it's pretty much good.  So it does mean a lot definitely.  It's going to give me some extra confidence.  But in the end of the day, it's only tennis match.  For day and a half I have another one.  We will see.
Q. Do you see him as a particular rival?  You've had some history with him.  In general, with the under 21 guys, do you see this as a separate rivalry off the main tour?
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I mean, definitely he had unbelievable year so far.  He's, what, No. 6 or 7 in the world.  So definitely he had really good year.  With all the other guys, we were all about 30, 40, 50, 60.  I'm not sure, to be honest.
I mean, it's that NextGen thing, you know, what ATP is promoting, also what we are promoting.  I think it's actually quite cool.  I think it does help us, as well, to put us on the map.
I mean, I don't know.  I don't see it as a big rivalry.  I think we all have our paths, our careers.  We need to go in our way.  I'm trying not to look at the other guys.  Trying to look at myself, to improve my game, to improve my tennis.
Q. Sascha was one of the favorites to get to the final in the bottom half of the draw.  Now you've beaten him.  Are you actually thinking about where you can go in this tournament?
BORNA CORIC: No, not really.  I mean, I had some good wins this year, then I lost.  I had some bad losses, as well.  So I need to go match by match.  Next match I think is Kevin Anderson, right?  I lost to him twice, I think.  So it's going to be extremely tough match.
Like I said, I lost to him twice.  I need to recover, as well.  It was long match.  It was really physically also very demanding.  So, no, I'm not looking to the semifinals, not even close to that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT