ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. JOHNSON/B. Coric   
6-2, 7-6, 3-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Obviously, a disappointing loss for you.  What was the cause of most of your frustration, I guess especially at the end?  Was it just losing or something particular that happened in that match?  
BORNA CORIC: It's the loss.  I mean, that's quite logic, I think.  I was on the court for four hours.  And it's not something which should be my excuse, but, you know, I got mad.  I think everyone gets mad from time to time.  Maybe I didn't show it in the right way but -- I made a mistake, but that's it.   
 Q.  Any thoughts on that point penalty that Steve got when he was two points away from the match?  Just what happened there?  What did you think about it?  
BORNA CORIC: I think it was close call definitely.  I mean, he could give him also point penalty and maybe he was -- he didn't have to do it.  So I think it's a 50/50.   
And, yeah, I mean, I just don't -- I mean, I cannot say was the right call or was it a bad call.  I think it's a 50/50 call.  So it just depends on the referee.   
 Q.  Overall, in the match, what did you make of his game and how he was able to get the better of this one?  Because it was obviously a tight, long match.  Where was sort of the turning point?  
BORNA CORIC: I think I played -- I haven't find my game until the set and a half, I think.  You know, which is a bit too late.  I was always catching up.  So I think that was -- you know, I was just catching up for the whole match.   
And I had the set point, I think, in the second set.  Yes, I had it.  And, you know, I didn't play well, obviously.  And I got back in towards -- in the fourth I was leading 4-2, I think, yeah.  So it was definitely close match.   
 Q.  I assume you're aware what's been going on with Steve and how his dad passed away recently.  Just any thoughts on that or how impressive it was for him to mentally battle through this period.  
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I think it was super tough definitely.  You know, and all the credit to him that he was able to go through this period and also to play this good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT