WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2016
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. CORIC/R. Nadal   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Were you surprised to find yourself up 6-1, 4-Love like you were?  
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, especially because he started the match very well, you know, and I thought it's going to be much different obviously.   
But that's the tennis.  One day you're going to play good, one day you're not going to play good.  Yeah, I was hitting the ball really well.  I thought I was playing well.  I was serving pretty big, which was very important against him.  I was returning well.  So th.   
At was it.   
 Q.  Two big wins in a row for you.  Must feel like a bit of a breakthrough.  
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it's a good sign.  You know, I been playing well, also, which is the most important.  It's even more important than wins.  I been playing very good.  I was happy with my game.   
Also I can see some other things where I can improve even more, you know, but it's going to come with the time for sure.   
But, yeah, it's definitely good feeling.  It's not the end of the tournament.  I just need to keep on going.   
 Q.  What are some of the things that you think you're doing well?  Also, you said there is room for improvement.  What are some things you would like to work on?  
BORNA CORIC: Well, I think I'm doing a lot of work on my weaknesses, which I'm aware of I think I have, which is normal.  I'm just only 19 and I need to work hard on these small areas which are very important.   
I think that my serve, I still think I can improve it, especially my second serve.  My forehands, my attacking forehand.  My volleys.   
So basically that's the answer as well.  That's the things which I am working now and I need to do in the future as well.   
It's not going to just happen; it takes some time to do it.   
 Q.  When you're playing a match where the scoreline is lopsided like today, how do you keep your level up to kind of not take your foot off the gas?  
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, it's not easy.  Definitely I think he's great fighter and I was very aware of that.  I knew if I give him just a small chance he's going to take it, so I need to be very careful.  I needed to stay on the big level which I was playing.   
And it's not easy, you know.  I think on 4-Love I played a poor game, and those kind of things happen.  But I was just trying to focus on myself and not think about anything else.   
I was trying to be aware of what I'm doing good and what's bothering him, which shots I need to play.  So on the tactics-wise, and I think it was working.   
 Q.  You're signing the camera with the left hand.  Are you left-handed outside of tennis?  
BORNA CORIC: Yes, I am.  Actually depends how you look at it.  All the sports I'm going to play with the right, and everything else, eating, writing, I'm going to do with left.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Is there a reason for that?  
BORNA CORIC: No.  I mean, no.  I don't know the reason.  I'm just born like that, a little bit messed up.   
 Q.  You ever tried playing tennis left-handed?  
BORNA CORIC: No, but I play ping-pong with left very good.   
 Q.  Thoughts on your next match?  
BORNA CORIC: Well, I mean, we need to see against who I'm going to play.  Obviously it's going to be very tough.  I think they are both in a very good shape.   
Marin shows that he's been playing very good tennis here in this tournament.  Also Berdych is same.  So it's going to be very interesting match.  I'm going to try look at it and see some things, and then I'm going to just prepare for the match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT