US OPEN
September 6, 2020
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  B. CORIC/J. Thompson
 7-5, 6-1, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You had an epic match a day ago.  Come back and win in straight sets.  Give us your mindset after that victory the other day, then going into this match?  Were you worried about any adverse side effects from that match?
 BORNA CORIC:   Yeah, I mean, look, my mentality was as soon as I finished that much, I need to focus on my next match, because that's the tennis.  That's the tennis tournaments at the end of the day.  It's not like the boxing, you know, once you win, you can go and you can celebrate.
 My mentality was I need to recover as quick as I can.  I played two very, very long matches.  Yeah, you know, I was just trying to focus on my next match.  I had a very easy session yesterday afternoon just to get going a little bit and to feel good.
 Yeah, obviously today the mentality was to try to play as aggressive as I can because obviously I was not as fresh as at the beginning of the tournament, but at the same time I think I'm playing much better when I'm playing aggressive.
 Q. What are your thoughts on Zverev's style of play and the keys to the match against him?
 BORNA CORIC:   Look, he's one of the top players in the world for the last three or four years.  His game is very, very solid.  He doesn't have any weak points.
 He's serving huge at this tournament.  I saw that.  I actually watched almost all of his matches because twice he was playing before me, so I was watching it.
 He's playing I think some of the best tennis of his life.  Yeah, it's going to be very interesting match.  We played four or five times.  It was always very big battle.  Last time when we played, I think he had some problem with his foot or with his hamstring, so I wouldn't count that as my win.
 You know, the key is I need to see with my coach what is going to be my tactics.
 Q. How does it feel to reach a Grand Slam quarterfinal?
 BORNA CORIC:   It does feel great, to be honest.  It's a very big relief for me.  I wanted this for a very long time.  I couldn't make that step in the last two times.  I felt at the Australian Open in 2019, in the fourth round I had maybe small chance.  I was set up against Pouille.
 Obviously then I was not in the best shape physically, and also tennis-wise.  It was, I would say, tough times for me.
 I'm just very happy that now after this break, which came very good to me, because I was able to resolve some of my body issues, stuff like that, then I'm playing good.  I'm pretty healthy now.
 Q. I remember at the ATP Cup you said last year was tough with the injuries.  How much does a result like this really boost your confidence and affect the rest of your year?
 BORNA CORIC:   It does a lot obviously.  I'm the kind of player that needs wins.  I need to play matches that I can feel confident.  Honestly, it's hugely important for me.  It's the best thing I could do.
 Yeah, again, it does feel great.  Obviously, like I said on my first question, I need to focus on my next match, on the recovery for my next match.  Yeah, hopefully I can win, as well.
 Q. That's a pretty good mindset, focusing on the match ahead.  When you were young there was always a lot of attention on you.  How have you compartmentalized that so you can go about your business?
 BORNA CORIC:   I just think I learned that time I cannot focus on the other people opinion, that I don't gain anything from that.  I need to be focused on myself, on the things which I need to do, on the things that I also need to improve.
 I think that's the most important.  I think every player has that, especially the ones who are a little bit younger, who had pretty much all the attention on them since a very young age.
 I think it's also very important for them to learn that they need to focus on themselves.
 Q. What were your thoughts when you saw what happened with Djokovic and learned he was defaulted?
 BORNA CORIC:   Yeah, I actually haven't seen what happened exactly because I was treating my shoulder.  Then my coach came into the room and said what happened.  I went out in my suite just to see what happened.
 Obviously that's unlucky.  It's very, very unlucky.  If it just went five centimeters on the left, it wouldn't happen anything.  I feel sorry for him.  At the same time, you know, that's the rules.  I think he needed to be defaulted.  There is not much else to say.
 Again, I do feel sorry for him.  He's my friend.  Obviously I think nobody's happy that that happened.
 Q. With Djokovic, Federer, Nadal not here, and nobody that's left in the field has won a major before, can you express or talk about the opportunity that is.  Whoever might win, do you think that could also open the floodgates for players other than the big three winning majors?
 BORNA CORIC:   Look, definitely it's a very good chance for all of us.  Again, like I said, I think maybe like a couple minutes ago, I need to focus on my next match and on my next opponent, which is a very, very tough opponent.
 There's going to be new Grand Slam champion, for sure.  Yeah, that could potentially can happen that some of us can do something more in the future.  But again, it doesn't mean anything.  I'm really looking forward to see who it's going to be.  I think we all have a very good chance.  Yeah, it's going to be very interesting.
 For me, the most important is just to focus on the next match, like I said at the beginning.  I cannot focus on the finals or what happened earlier in the day.  I just need to focus on my next match.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT