ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2016
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. CORIC/B. Tomic
3-6, 6-2, 7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How does it feel to be back in the third round here?
BORNA CORIC: It does feel great.  You know, I still didn't have time to think about it.  You know, I just finished my match.  I was in the ice bath and doing all the stretching and the everything.
So I think in about two hours it's going to be even nicer.  It's definitely great feeling.
Q. Have the last couple months been tougher for you?
BORNA CORIC: Yes and no.  I mean, I had some good results and some bad results definitely.  I'm not going to question that, you know.  I think that's normal.  I had a tough draw, you know, where I felt good and when I was playing good, you know, I didn't have luck with the draw.  That's a little bit unlucky.
But that's the tennis.  I'm aware of that.  I'm still very young and I'm not in the rush.  I don't have to achieve -- I mean, of course I want to achieve it as soon as possible and as quick as possible, but I'm not going to go into the panic mode if I don't do it.
I'm aware that my tennis is improving.  I think I have very good quality of tennis at the moment, especially on the clay court, and I'm I think it's going to come.  Just is a matter of time.
Q. Obviously some tight points in that match and he's a tricky player.  Also a young guy who maybe had his ups and downs.  When you look at him, can you take some examples of what not to do as a professional?
BORNA CORIC: I mean, yeah, for sure he's unique player and he's very tough to play obviously.  I was really lost in the first set.  I didn't know where the ball is going to go, where he's going to serve, how he's going to return.  He was playing well.
But about the other stuff, I think every player has his own way of doing some things.  I have my way; he has obviously his way.  Is it wrong or good?  I don't know.  I think we going to see in ten years.
But just because he's unique and just because not everyone is doing it doesn't mean it's wrong.  Maybe it is.  I'm maybe different type of the player.  I'm going to do everything in the perfect way.  But that's me.  Everyone is different.
Q. Do you believe in yourself enough at this point to make a deep run at a tournament like this?
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I think so.  Definitely.  I think that was one of the reasons maybe I didn't go a little bit deeper a little bit before, you know, because I didn't have the confidence to beat guys like him or guys in top 20 or top 25, which you need to beat on a daily basis if you want to go into the fourth or fifth rounds of the slam or of the Masters.
So I think so definitely.  Depends where I play, because somewhere I don't feel good and obviously I'm not believing in myself enough.  Here I'm play very good and I have very good results for the last two years.  Yeah, why not?
Q. You're still very young, but the ATP have chosen to focus on you and Kyrgios and Zverev in the new advertising campaign.  Does that put pressure on you?  Do you mind that?
BORNA CORIC: No, I mean, of course there is some extra pressure with it, but I think we are all used to the pressure.  We have it since we are 12 years old.  Now is it 5% more or 5% less?  I think it doesn't matter to us.  At least not to me.
I mean, you need to look at the pressure in a positive way.  For me, it's not a typical pressure.  I just try to use it in a way that I'm going to work harder and work even more and I'm going to give of myself even more to the tennis.
Some people expect that from me.  They are also investing their time and effort in me, so I'm going to do the same.
Q. Alexander Zverev also won today.  There is a lot of talk about the new generation with you, Fritz, and whatever.  What about the relationship between this generation and the other generation, Thiem, Tomic?  Is it already too far, or is there a relationship between all of you?
BORNA CORIC: I think we have all good relationship, you know.  At least I do.  I think it should stay like that.  There is no reason not to have a good relationship.  Obviously on the court we are opponents, but shouldn't be any different to when I'm playing to Tomic, Zverev or Bautista.  I think it's the same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT