ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  B. CORIC/S. Querrey  7-6, 6-3, 0-6, 6-3    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  This is your first win here at Roland Garros.  How did you feel today?  BORNA CORIC: I felt quite good, honestly.  In the first set I didn't feel so good like I expected to, but I managed to win it somehow. I don't know how honestly, because I was two set points down and in the tiebreak I was 5-1 up, so it was quite stressful. Then for the second set I played I think very good set. In the third I took a little bit of the break because I was tired. And then in the fourth set I can say that I played best set by far.   Q.  What does it feel like being here and getting through this first round?  You have a tough one against Robredo next.  Do you feel that at least getting through the first one took some pressure off you?  BORNA CORIC: Yeah, for sure it does mean a lot to me, you know, in the points-wise as well.  It's so many points, so it's going to be nice.  My ranking is going to go up again, so it's actually quite good. Like you said, against Robredo it's going to be quite tough.  He's great player.  He had a great career. But I'm not going to just give up.  I'm going to fight and give my best, and then we going to see what's going to happen.   Q.  Well-played today.  You've come a long way in the last year.  How would you sum up the last 12 months?  BORNA CORIC: Honestly, I didn't expect that it's going to be that good.  I was hoping for it.  I was believing I could do it, but I didn't want to expect so much. Yeah, it was quite amazing 12 months.  I had great year last year.  Maybe in Australia started just a little bit slow, but from Australia I got my rhythm on the clay court. I'm playing much better than I was actually expecting to, because clay court is not my favorite surface.  So I'm just very happy with the whole year.   Q.  Sort of transition from being a junior into the seniors, a lot of players find that quite tricky and it takes a long time.  You are already 40 in the top 50 in the world.  Where do you get your maturity from?  How have you become such a mature player so quickly?  BORNA CORIC: I don't know, honestly.  I can't answer to that because I don't know, you know.  I'm just always giving my best.  I'm believing that I can do it.  I'm training as hard as I can, you know.  I'm always giving 100% on the training and off the court, on the court. You know, I don't know why I'm now -- I mean, I know that it's because all the hard work and all that, but I don't know why I'm so mature like you said. I am on the tennis court, but maybe off the court I'm not that much like you think.   Q.  The third set today, was that something like match management in a way?  BORNA CORIC: No, no, no.  I mean, it was combination of him playing very good tennis and of me maybe -- I mean, I can't say that I was tired.  You know, I didn't get tired.  Just more maybe he got -- I made one mistake at 40-15 in the first game where I should hold my serve; I didn't. He just broke me there and played two unbelievable shots.  After that, he started to play unbelievable.  His serve, I couldn't read it or return it. So I just found it very tough and he didn't return very good.  So it was a little bit maybe on the 4-0 when I knew, especially because he got new balls I think on 3- or 4-0, so I knew the set was going to more or less finish. I said, I'm just going to try to focus on the fourth set, which I did very good.   Q.  There are a few guys close to your age who won today and are doing particularly well over the past few months, Nick Kyrgios, Kokkinakis, yourself.  Do you guys feed off each other at all or does it give you any extra motivation seeing people as young as you are doing well, or do you not pay attention?  BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I think, yeah, it's very nice to see also other players.  And like you said, it's for sure motivation and kind of you have more self-belief, I think, because you can see that someone else who's your age can do it.  They can win all the top 10, top 20 guys. So I think it's just very good to have someone your age or maybe just a little bit older who's doing very good.   Q.  And Nick Kyrgios is perhaps the one who has had the biggest breakthrough in the slams.  What do you think is special about him?  BORNA CORIC: I mean, I said already couple of times I think he has game for top 5 very soon.  If he stays healthy.  Because he didn't play in many tournaments last year and this year, so it's quite amazing what he did with 15 tournaments or something like that. So I think if he manages just to stay healthy and play tennis like he is at the moment, he's going to be at the top level very soon.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT