DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 27, 2015
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/B. Coric
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What's your assessment of the match?
BORNA CORIC:   Sorry? 

Q.   Your assessment, your thoughts on the match. 
BORNA CORIC:   You know, he was just way too good for me.   I was feeling so rushed, you know.   I didn't have any time to play my game plan.   You know, I was just trying to hold in the rally as long as I can, and it was basically only thing what I could do. 
Also, I was serving very badly.   But I was serving badly all tournament, so I wasn't too surprised.   You know, when you're playing against a guy who is No. 1 or No. 2 in the world, you need to be serving much better if you're going to even compete with him.

Q.   Were you nervous at the processes of playing Federer?
BORNA CORIC:   Yeah, I was.   I was.   I was nervous.   I didn't know what to expect exactly, because I never played him, you know.   Obviously I watched him couple times in my life, so I had some kind of respect, yeah.   Then I was a little bit nervous, yeah. 

Q.   What are the positives that you can take out of this tournament?
BORNA CORIC:   Firstly, my ranking is going to go up much higher, so, you know, I'm going to be in the main draw of all ATP tournaments and even maybe some of the 500 tournaments, so that's the best thing. 
But also I showed to myself that I can play with the best guys, with the top 50 guys, top 70.   Also I beat Andy Murray, so I showed to myself that I can play. 
Like I said yesterday, I need to be on 100% mentally tennis‑wise and also physically, and today I just wasn't good enough.

Q.   How did you feel physically?   Because you have had a few long matches in a row. 
BORNA CORIC:   Yeah, I mean, I was feeling okay.   Nothing special, you know.   I was feeling much better yesterday, you know. 
But that's the tennis, and it's not an excuse.   Because also he was playing three matches before this, so it's not an excuse, you know.
But I did feel a little bit of the, not the pain, but, you know, I was a little bit sore, yeah.

Q.   Is it difficult to reset psychologically, you know, having beaten Murray yesterday?   Is it difficult to reset psychologically to face Federer?
BORNA CORIC:   Yeah, it does a little bit.   I was feeling yesterday like I won the Grand Slam, and then today I need to go out again after 24 hours and play against a guy who is ‑‑ we all know who he is. 
It's not easy, for sure.   And also I was a little bit struggling with that, but I just need to ‑‑I need to be used to it. 

Q.   Were there occasions that it almost seemed unreal out there on court, that you being so young were playing the guy that when you were growing up has always been... 
BORNA CORIC:   Yeah, definitely.   This is almost a dream come true.   I was watching him since I was I think maybe six or seven.   I was watching him play Wimbledon, playing all the slams. 
I was saying, I wish I could play with him one day, you know.   And today I was playing against him.   Obviously I didn't do so well, but, you know, I wasn't ‑‑I wasn't expecting too much, and, yeah.
So I'm just happy that I made the semifinal.   I gave my best.   My best wasn't even close enough, good today, but what you can do.

Q.   When you're getting introduced on the court and they are saying you're the youngest semifinalist ever here, youngest in the top 100, all these stats, do you feel intimidated when you're stepping on the court, or do you feel like you have something to prove?   What's the mentality?
BORNA CORIC:   I mean, I'm not sure.   But definitely, no, I'm feeling good that, you know, that I did something with the tennis.   I'm aware I need to do much more. 
At the same time, maybe it's a small pressure, you know, because like you said, I need to prove to everyone, but I think I proved it a couple times already.   You know, I think that's some kind of good pressure.

Q.   Growing up you must have heard a lot about Roger, how good he is, read about him, watched him.   Was he as good or better?   How was it playing against him?
BORNA CORIC:   Yeah, I mean, it's a good question, but definitely, I mean, I knew that it's going to be very tough, you know.   But when you come on the court and when you actually feel the ball and feel the pressure which he's making, it's actually been tougher than when you're watching it in the sofa in front of TV.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT