U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2014
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  B. CORIC/L. Rosol  6-4, 6-1, 6-2  An interview with:  BORNA CORIC   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  How does it feel for you?  Now you get a first-round win against a top 30 player.  What did you think?  BORNA CORIC: Well, it's amazing feeling, you know.  I came here and I was only thinking about getting in the main draw.  That was my first goal. I said to myself, If I achieve that that's going to be perfect.  Now actually winning a guy who os top 30 or close, you know, it's just unbelievable, because I defended all my points till the end of this year, and now my schedule is going to change now. All the things are going to be a little bit easier now.   Q.  You have had a good summer, obviously.  Just wondering, do you think some of the teenagers are feeding off of each other?  It's been a good summer for guys around your age.  BORNA CORIC: Yeah.  I think we are coming through.  I think there is four guys or maybe five my age, and some of them a little bit even younger.  So, yeah, I mean, for now it's going to very good. But, I mean, we need to stay out of the injuries or how to go crazy in the head, so we see who's going to make it to the top 10 or even better.   Q.  Was first round of the main draw like playing last round of the qualifications?  BORNA CORIC: Yeah, it is.  That's why actually I played better, no?  I served much better and my return was better.  I was very relaxed.  I didn't having anything to lose.  If I lost it would be very good tournament for me, and if I win it's going to be amazing.   Q.  Have you gotten advice from any of the former top Croatian players?  BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I actually spoke to all of them.  I spoke to the Ivanisevic, to the Ljubicic, to the Cilic actually, as well.  They actually help me very much. You know, I'm so thanks also to them because they helped me a lot.  You know, I didn't know him so much, so they help me a lot.   Q.  When you saw what Kyrgios did at Wimbledon, did that give you inspiration?  You don't necessarily have to wait for a long time for that kind of breakthrough.  BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I don't look so much at the other players.  So, I mean, it's unbelievable job from him, you know, but it doesn't mean anything to me. But also, it actually showed that even younger players can play with the top 10 or maybe top 20 level.  In some kind, yes, it actually show me that we can all play with them. But also, I'm just looking at myself.   Q.  Do you think there is a reason that there is this crop of teenagers coming through?  Because normally people say you have to wait until you're 23, 24, 25 to make it to this level, and you're doing it at 17.  BORNA CORIC: Well, I mean, I don't know.  Maybe it's because there is like five of us so we are pushing each other, you know.  If I'm in this tournament, the other players is gonna try even more.  He's gonna work harder.  So maybe that's why.  Or just times are a little bit changing, you know.   Q.  It's been a good moment for young Croatians, and on the women's side, too.  Is there something you think in Croatia that both men and women, something is going right in this generation?  Seems to all be happening at the same time.  BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I think it's because in the Croatia it's not so easy.  We don't have best conditions to train or, I don't know, for the everything.  We don't have a lot of money. So you need to be tough if you want to make it.  We are not spoiled.  We are working hard.  I think that's one of the reasons why all the Croatian players are very good.   Q.  What did you think of Tomljanovic switching to Australian?  BORNA CORIC: I don't have my opinion.  Actually, I do, but I'm not going to say to you, unfortunately (laughter). That's her thing, you know.  I don't know what she was getting from our federation and in what kind of situation she was.  I just can't judge it.  I don't judge it at all.   Q.  Are you still splitting your time between Croatia and London?  BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I do.  Half of time I'm going to train in the Croatia, half in London, yeah.   Q.  Your first 12 months really playing pro tournaments full time, I mean, what is the biggest thing you have learned about life on the tour and about your game in these last 12 months?  BORNA CORIC: Well, I learned on the tour that, you know, it's maybe tougher in the sense that all the guys are not gonna just give you the match if you win first set or if there is some bad call or something. So, you know, I just learned that.  And also, I saw that they are not so much better than the juniors.  Of course they are better, but if you get used to it, you can change it quite quickly.   Q.  How much are your goals changing now, through first round.  Ranking or your goals?  BORNA CORIC: My goals for the end of the year?   Q.  Yeah.  BORNA CORIC: For the end of the year, I'm not sure which my ranking is going to be now.  I didn't check it.  I think I can say to finish top 150.   Q.  Do you feel like there are a lot of eyes on you, that people are taking notice of you and what you're doing?  BORNA CORIC: I'm not sure.  I mean, I think you're gonna know that better than me.  But I don't have any pressure.  So if everyone is looking at me and I'm even more excited about everything, you know, because I'm going to prove to everyone that I'm a good player, so I don't care so much about that, you know.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT