U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2013
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. CORIC/T. Kokkinakis
      3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑1 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   Tough battle.   You lost the first set.   You had to fight back.   Talk a little bit about the match and why you think you won it.   
    BORNA CORIC:   I didn't came in the match so well.   I wasn't moving well.   I wasn't playing well.   He play just first set too good.   I had a couple of chances, but I didn't take them.   
    So, yeah, I just lost it.   Then in the second set I was very happy to get the first break on 1‑0, and then he broke me back.   Actually, I lost a little bit of belief when I lost that break.   
    But 2‑All I saved two break points and I think that's also like yesterday some key of the match where I like broke him.   
    Then I started to play good.   His level a little bit dropped, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   What's it feel like being a Grand Slam champion?  
    BORNA CORIC:   It's very good.   I'm really happy, because, you know, like I said, this is my last tournament of the juniors.   I finished very, very good.   I'm won the slam.   That was my goal on the beginning of this year, so it's amazing feeling.  
   
 Q.   How do you think you returned today?   His serve is obviously one of the biggest parts of his game.   Was that important for you?   How did you execute?  
    BORNA CORIC:   Well, I think he didn't serve so well.   I think his baseline shots, especially in the first set, was really good.   I think his percentage of the first serve wasn't so big.  
    I think I returned okay, but I was expecting more, actually, from my return.  
   
 Q.   How does this compare to the match you played yesterday?   Again, you lost the first set.   Did you draw on that experience at all?   Did you say, I lost yesterday; I can come back?  
    BORNA CORIC:   Always when I lose first set I just try to hang out in the second, you know, just to be on a close, don't give him like big lead, because then he has much more confidence.   
    So I was just trying to be 1‑All, 2‑All, which I did.   In the end, it paid off.  
   
 Q.   You won two futures coming in here in Turkey; now you won this title; next week you go off to Davis Cup.   Is there a part of you that's going, wow, this is happening to me at this age?  
    BORNA CORIC:   Yeah, I mean, I think it's really unbelievable.   I didn't expect it.   Like before, four months, if someone tell me, I would say, like, No chance.  
    But I was working really hard.   I put a lot of time on the court and off court, as well.   So I think I deserve it.  
   
 Q.   What part do you expect to play in Davis Cup next weekend?   What do you expect your role to be in Davis Cup next weekend?  
    BORNA CORIC:   I don't expect anything.   I will just ‑‑ whatever captain says, I'm going to do it.   That's my first Davis Cup, so I'm there like just to be there.   
    If he says You play, I will play.   If he says, Just bring the water on the court, I will just bring the water on the court.  
   
 Q.   Has he said there is a chance that you will play?  
    BORNA CORIC:   No.   No, I haven't actually spoke with him about that, but we will see when I come there.  
   
 Q.   So you lost the first set, and, you know, it's very easy to get discouraged, but, you know, you seemed to be very confident.   At 3‑All, you're still believing.   So how important was it like for you to actually believe that you could do it?  
    BORNA CORIC:   Well, I think very important, especially when you're playing someone like him, you know, like big serve, big forehand.   
    Like I said, I was just trying to be as close as I can, because he was playing better.   I was feeling that I couldn't do lot with the ball.   I was playing too much defensive.   
    So I was just trying to stay in the match and wait for his little mistake, which he did, actually.   Then my confidence went up, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned water.   I thought I noticed you being very careful with your placement of the water on the court in front of your seat.   You seemed to be returning serve from about 15 feet back.   Is there a certain Spanish player that you're particularly fond of?  
    BORNA CORIC:   (Smiling).   No.   Actually, I was ‑‑I had a little bit ‑‑I had small problems with my return, back, like, two, three months, so I actually changed a little bit.  
    I'm staying very far, but when he tosses the ball I'm coming in.   So I'm not actually returning very far from the baseline.   I'm returning far, but not so far.   My timing is still to go in front.   
   
 Q.   And your water bottle placement?  
    BORNA CORIC:   That's a little bit of my thing.   I'm doing it before my match.   While the match sometimes no, sometimes yes.   It depends how I'm playing.   It's very, very complicated.  
   
 Q.   You're working on it?  
    BORNA CORIC:   Depends how I'm feeling.  
    But always when I'm starting the match, I always put on the same place like first day of the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk to us a little bit about the time you spent in England and how important that little group is in your practice there to your development.   
    BORNA CORIC:   Um, yeah, well, I change coach like I think 10 months ago.   I'm not sure.   
    Like I said, he actually was really working hard with me, especially there, but also in last couple of months he came to the Zagreb and Umag.  
    I think it's very, very important, because his mentality is a little bit different than ours mentality, which is good, which I needed, because I was a little bit too much of maybe Croatian mentality.  
   
 Q.   How did you meet him, the coach?  
    BORNA CORIC:   My manager.   He's from London.   So, yeah, when we were searching for the coach, he said, Look, you can try him.   I think he's good.  
    So I said, Yeah, why not?   We tried.   I liked.   We continued.  
   
 Q.   What's the difference between Croatian mentality and what, British?   
    BORNA CORIC:   British.   I think it's a big, big difference.   All the Croatian people, some of them are actually hard workers, but not as the Brits.   I mean, when I was working with my ex‑coach I was working hard, but I wasn't working like really, really hard.  
    With Ryan I'm working really, really hard.   I'm putting a lot of time on the court as well as off the court.   And the biggest difference is I think because, you know, a lot of Croatian people are nervous.   Actually I am still, but I think I improve so much.  
    But I think he helped me there a lot.  
   
 Q.   Why nervous?   
    BORNA CORIC:   Why we are nervous?   I don't know.   You have to ask maybe Goran, I'm not sure.  
   
 Q.   Did you see Mario Ancic?  
    BORNA CORIC:   Yes, I just saw him.   
   
 Q.   Christian Garin from Chile, he won Roland Garros, and he's also ready for this transition.   He was just practicing with Nadal.   He just mentioned about the transition.   So what are your expectations?   Because I know it might be a little tricky sometimes or exciting, but at the same time a little tricky.   What do you think about this transition?  
    BORNA CORIC:   To the...   
   
 Q.   To the pros?   
    BORNA CORIC:   To the pros?   I think I did well to actually get the first step.   So let's say from 1000 to 500, that's the first step.   Maybe actually to 400 and to come so I can start playing challengers.   
    But for sure it's very tough.   A lot of players disappear in that time, which I hope I won't.  
    So I think it's going to be very, very interesting for me.   But I won already this year three futures, so I show to myself that I can do it on this first step.   
    Now I'm going to see the second step.  
   
 Q.   How difficult was it for you to move to London, to live in London?   Because you're quite young to leave home and to go to a country and speak a different language.   
    BORNA CORIC:   In the beginning it was tough.   I didn't want actually to go, but then we had kind of the deal that I'm not gonna be there for the whole time.   I'm going to be there before tournaments, and then after tournaments go home.   
    Then sometimes he's gonna come to the Zagreb.   So it wasn't ‑‑actually, when I heard about it, I was like, I don't want to do this.   But when I started, it was fine.   Now I'm actually really liking it.   It's really nice.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any plans to celebrate?   I know you have to get ready and go for Davis Cup, but...   
    BORNA CORIC:   Maybe after Davis Cup, but now I need to prepare for Davis Cup the best I can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT