HUAJIN SECURITIES ZHUHAI CHAMPIONSHIPS
September 27, 2019
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. DE MINAUR/B. Coric.
6-2, 4-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Let's begin. First question.
Q. It's a tough match for you, especially that you lost, but recently I think you're playing really well, especially last week. How do you feel about your game level right now?
BORNA CORIC: Thank you very much. I thought it was very good game. If I had moved better in the first set and a half, which I think he just played too good and my level was not great I think, but also his level was very high. But then since then I got my rhythm, I started to play a little better, I saw what's maybe bothering him a little bit. And I came to a set all, but unfortunately in the third set I just couldn't manage to win. But overall I think it was a very solid match from my side. I thought he was playing very well and that's it.
Q. I think you are getting much stronger than three or four years before. Can you share with us your fitness training regime and do you have a plan to get more weight?
BORNA CORIC: No, I don't have any plans to get more weight. I think I'm already heavy enough, to be honest. So I'm planning to lose some weight maybe, if I need to, in the off-season. But I'm not planning to get any more weight, I don't think I need it for tennis, I think I need to know a little bit lower, but it's also very tough to do.
And, yeah, and regarding my fitness, obviously I got a little bit stronger, but I think that's also my body type. I wouldn't really say that that's because of the fitness work, it's more just because that's my body, I think.
Q. This is the first year of Zhuhai championships and also your first time to come here. What do you think about the tournament and the tennis facilities here?
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I liked it from the day I came, honestly. It's a really, really nice site. I was enjoying my time here. Obviously I was a little bit short here, I came on Monday night very late and I'm going to leave tomorrow. But, yeah, I was enjoying my time here and the site is great and the courts are great. The conditions are just a little bit slow, but that's normal. It's very humid also, but there's nothing you can do. But again, the hotel is amazing and the food is amazing, so I was obviously enjoying my time here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT