MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2013
Blake Treadwell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  BLAKE TREADWELL:   I'm turning 23.   I'm very old for football, for college at least.  
   
 Q.   Obviously this is your last shot at Michigan.   Just I guess kind of talk about your emotions heading into this week.   
BLAKE TREADWELL:   My emotions are very high.   But I mean, every senior it's going to be very high because we only have two more games in Spartan Stadium to play.   I know the time clock is ticking for me, so I want to enjoy every game I can, especially these two games knowing it'll be my last two times in Spartan Stadium.  
   
 Q.   A couple of Michigan players talked about being bullied, there's been some talk about being out‑toughed.   As an offensive lineman when they say you about you guys as an offensive line, is that a compliment?  
BLAKE TREADWELL:   I'll say the main thing, as an offensive line here at Michigan State, we want to be known for playing physical football.   Football is a physical game as we all know, so that's what we strive to be, physical, and that's all I'll say about that.   
   
 Q.   Can you think back to the offensive line last year heading into this game versus the way you guys are constructed and playing now?   That was your first game back at Michigan last year?   
BLAKE TREADWELL:   Yeah, it was one of the games I was actually 100 percent healthy, starting to get fully healthy.   I played at little bit at Indiana last year, but I was still coming back.   I wasn't nearly where I was compared to when we played Michigan.  
   
 Q.   How much better and healthier is this offensive line now than it was a year ago?  
BLAKE TREADWELL:   I'd say if anything, thank God, nobody has had major injuries, so everybody has been healthy.   And as well last year compared to this year, a lot more guys have played.   I remember Coach D brought up the stat of how many snaps I think our eight‑man rotation has, and it's very astounding to me how many guys have had minutes to play.   So I think this year compared to last year, we're a lot more gelled together as a unit.   Everybody knows what they're doing, as well as I keep preaching every week, the competition is as high as it's ever been, and guys want to play and guys are just chomping at the bit.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you guys are more important in a game like this?  
BLAKE TREADWELL:   I think if anything as offensive linemen you always want to get better, you always want to keep improving.   Last year there was a lot of inconsistency on the offensive line, I'll agree, so this year we've definitely worked hard each week just trying to improve, so each week we're just going to try to improve, get better and better.  
   
 Q.   I don't know what your feeling was about this rivalry before you were a Spartan, but take us to the first time you dressed for a Michigan game, probably didn't even play.   What was different about it and what did you notice that first time about this rivalry?   
BLAKE TREADWELL:   Well, my freshman year, actually that was my first game I actually played because I was going to get red‑shirted, so it was a really big deal for me.   I remember five years ago I think it was.   It's amazing how time has flown.   Five years ago, it was my first game, they said they were going to take my red shirt off and I was going to play.   So I think I had about 12 to 14 snaps in that game.   I was nervous as anybody could be as a freshmen going out there.   The fans were very hyped.   I was very nervous as a player, but I also wanted to show I could play.   I put so much work into the off‑season.   I remember it was very rewarding to play in that game.  
   
 Q.   Did you notice anything about the environment?   
BLAKE TREADWELL:   Not really because if people forgot, my dad coached here back in the 2000s, so I remember being a kid coming to Michigan State watching Jeff Smoker last‑second touchdown pass to TJ Duckett, so I've been a part of this for a while.  
   
 Q.   Is that the year they beat them (inaudible)?  
BLAKE TREADWELL:   I believe so.   I'm not sure.   Yeah, it was home.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about being on the other end of it last season?   I think there was a play, a 4th and 1 from about the 2 or 3, time winding down and Coach Dantonio elected to kick a field goal rather than go for it.   Does that moment stand out in your mind as an offensive line the way Le'Veon is capable of running it, and how bitter of a pill was it and how much has it driven you in this off‑season?   
BLAKE TREADWELL:   Last year was a very tough year for this whole team.   I still remember there were so many games, if we only did this, only did that, so if anything I definitely carried all those memories from last year to this year.   That's what drives me this year to keep moving, keep pushing forward and never take anything back because you just never know what could happen in a football game.   We learned a lot from our experiences from last year, and that's why this year you see more finishing, taking the ball and controlling the ball a lot more.   
   
 Q.   What memory do you take out of walking out of the Big House last year?   
BLAKE TREADWELL:   Probably one of the worst feelings I've felt.   You know, playing Michigan State, that's one of the first times we've lost, me being here, and I'll tell you what, the locker room and stuff I'll never forget.   I can't explain the feeling.   Especially seeing our seniors' faces last year of how much it hurt them.   It was just a‑‑ I can't even explain how it felt last year.   
   
 Q.   I think you're the only offensive player that's being made available so I'm going to ask you about Michigan's defensive scheme.   Can you talk about what Michigan does as far as defensively that maybe makes them different than some other teams you've seen so far?  
BLAKE TREADWELL:   I've watched a lot of film already.   Their front four are athletic guys that can move guys around.   Very athletic defensive line.   I more watch defensive line and linebackers, but I'll say they're very athletic up front and they make big plays as you can see in certain games.   
   
 Q.   How much more confidence do you guys have in Connor after a performance like last week, to see him grow?   How much more do you have now than when this year started?  
BLAKE TREADWELL:   You know, I always had confidence in Connor, it was just a matter of him showing what he can do.   I know in the Purdue game he took a little step back.   Last week I was looking very forward to him showing what he can do for his football team, and he showed what he can do against Illinois.   One thing about Connor is if he might make a mistake he will totally forget about it and move to the next play.   That's one of the things I like about him.   As an offensive line we have faith in whoever is quarterback.   Connor Cook has shown some resiliency this year, and we can continue to look forward to this next game.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT