BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 23, 2010
Tano Goya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEVE TODD: 34 holes today, a long day so we appreciate your time coming in here, but a successful day for you. How do you assess what's gone on today? 
 TANO GOYA: I think the putting was the key today. I played very good on the greens and hit a lot of fairways, as well. The key was the greens and the putting, because it was so windy, I missed a lot of greens and I saved a lot with the putts, so I think that was the important thing. 
 STEVE TODD: 66 this morning when it was very windy, but how pleased were you with the 70 this afternoon, a couple of dropped shots, but to fight back the way you did. 
 TANO GOYA: It felt very good, because I knew after that round, I'm still having 18 holes with a lot of wind, it was going to be pretty tough. 
 So I focused on try to play hole-by-hole, shot by shot, and not try, you know, don't try to -- try not to, you know, miss a bad shot or complain, just got to focus. So hit every shot and try to do my best.
 STEVE TODD: Obviously we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, particularly with the wind and the players going out there, but you won in Madeira last year with the wind; with it being 54 holes, you're right up there.
 TANO GOYA: Yeah, but as I said, the guys still have to play tomorrow. We don't know how the weather is going to be. Can be worse, can be better for them so I'm just going to wait. Tomorrow is an easy day for me, just practise and rest a little bit, because today was terrible. 
 We don't know and sit and see what happens. 

 Q. Hard enough to finish any round with three birdies, but how much did that set you off and give you confidence with a round coming up so quickly after? 
 TANO GOYA: Yeah, gave me a lot of confidence, because I finish, you know, putting very good, and the last three holes, I'm hitting good shots. So that helps me a lot to have confidence for the afternoon, because, you know, that birdie on 18, you know, it really was, how do you say, really helps me a lot. 
 But I started very well starting with three birdies, as well, 2, 3 and 4, so that's helped me a lot. So it's easier after three birdies in a row and finishing like that. 

 Q. You didn't defend in Madeira, was that more to concentrate on these two events first? 
 TANO GOYA: Yeah, I didn't play last year and I think it was -- these are two really good events and big. Unfortunately I had a ticket on Saturday, and, you know, if I travelled after Malaysia, I would be arriving Tuesday after a long trip and it was not good. 
 So it was a shame, but I hope, you know, maybe next year I can go, because I really like the course and I enjoy playing there. 

 Q. The wind, of course, affects your game, and I think despite the wind today, you played very well; if you played the first round yesterday, I'm sure it would have been an easier environment because there was less wind yesterday. Do you think you might have been able to score better if you played yesterday?
 TANO GOYA: Well, you never know. It's a day -- it was today maybe, yesterday; I don't know. I don't think it's like that. I think it's the day you wake up and you play well. 
 You know, maybe the winds helped me a little bit to focus more. We never know. Let's see what happens. Maybe we have two good days, Saturday and Sunday, so maybe it's better for me, I don't know really. 

 Q. So you're taking the day off tomorrow, do you think that will affect your game negatively or positively? Is it better for you or affects your game more?
 TANO GOYA: I think it's going to be good, because I finished very tired today after this round, 34 holes and very windy. So I'm going to use tomorrow to rest and practise a little bit and try to have a good feeling. But I think it's going to be good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT