ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2008
Peter Hedblom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tell us about the day and the way you played? 
 PETER HEDBLOM:  It was a fun start to the year for me. I bogeyed the first hole but after that I played really solid and holed a couple of putts and that was a great start. I holed a good putt on the 17th for birdie as well, that is a good hole to birdie - I holed it from about 20 yards. It is breezy out there but the course is tough. If you hit the fairways it is not too bad but if you start missing the fairways the rough is thick. On the last few holes I missed a few drives and it is thick if you get in there. But if you keep it in the fairways the course is in great shape and if you get the greens, you can hole some putts. 

 Q.  Is it obvious at all out there that we've had so much rain in the build up? 
 PETER HEDBLOM:  No. We were talking about that out there actually, it is unbelievable playing this course without preferred lies, the ball is not even dirty. Everything is so dry all of a sudden which is incredible considering it rained for about the last six or seven days. But the course is in beautiful condition. 

 Q.  What have you been doing since Hong Kong which I think was your last tournament? 
 PETER HEDBLOM:  Nothing really. I have been home for seven weeks and after the New Year I was in Orlando for eight days practicing so that is about it. I loved it. When you get to my age you have to take some time off to be with the family and enjoy life a bit off the golf course. So when I was at home I played with the kids, did some fun stuff like playing ice hockey and just enjoyed myself. The older you get the easier it is to get back into playing good again. Ten years ago there was no chance of this, I needed three months to be playing good again so that is the good thing about getting older, it makes things simpler I think, you don't have to try and change things so much. You played this way for the last 17 years so you just have to try and get the feeling back and you are all right. 

 Q.  Last year was a good year and some of the best stuff was at the start wasn't it? 
 PETER HEDBLOM:  Yes it was. It was great to have a win early last year but after that I didn't really play up to my potential so hopefully this year I can stay in contention for the whole year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT