BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 31, 2006
Peter Hedblom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PETER HEDBLOM:  It was very good putting round, it was.  My putting has not been good throughout the whole year and today everything was coming in.  I didn't hit anything really close.  I hit it close on 16, just tapped it in for birdie there, but everything else was inside 10 or 15 feet outside that.  So it was good, a good first round.  I haven't had that for a long time, so it's good to be in the tournament.  Even though I bogeyed the last still a long way to go, so just happy to be in contention.
Q.  What was the highlight on the greens?  Which was the one that said, "Ahh, it's going to be my day?"
PETER HEDBLOM:  Well, I started bogey, bogey, so it wasn't a great start.

I made birdie on 14.  14 is tough.  I hit driver, 3 wood today, and I hit it to about, you know, 25 feet and holed it for birdie.  That's a good birdie on that hole.

From then own on I just made good putts.
Q.  Are you feeling confident?
PETER HEDBLOM:  It's nice when you're putting good.  You can play with a smile.  Every time you go on the green, you touch the ball, the ball goes in the hole.  That's a good feeling, so I hope I can keep that up.
Q.  Has it been a frustrating sort of time for a bit?
PETER HEDBLOM:  Yeah, it has.  Middle of the season, the last five tournaments I've been struggling, missed all the cuts.  I've been, you know, a little bit of motivation, I haven't really felt it.  I had three weeks off and now I feel like I'm ready to play again.  I'm really looking forward to the end of the year and hopefully I can have a good finish to the year.  I was pretty bad in August and September.
Q.  What was it those three weeks, just recharging the batteries?
PETER HEDBLOM:  I just wanted to take time off, took two weeks off didn't touch a golf club, spent time with my family and then started to play, have fun.  I played with my friends, practising, and everything started to feel good straightaway.  And then next thing you know, you start to look forward and feel like you're playing good again.
Q.  Become a bit of a chore there for a while?
PETER HEDBLOM:  When you play    I've played on Tour sense I was 20 years old, I'm 36 now and you have family and everything.  Sometimes golf doesn't feel that important and you're struggling.  At The Open, didn't feel as fun to play; when you're out there you make bogey, you don't really care, that's a bad sign.  So I just wanted to recharge my batteries.  So it's totally different now, just feels good to play here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT