ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 31, 2013
Peter Hedblom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very special round of golf for you.   
PETER HEDBLOM:   Yeah, it was the first really good round in two years it feels like‑‑ no, maybe not two years.   Especially this year, I played 18 good holes.   And like this year I played a lot of good holes, six holes, nine holes, 15 holes; I'm thinking I started playing like I want to come out, and today I did 18.  
   
 Q.   Weather very good, has that made a difference?   
PETER HEDBLOM:   Yeah, I thought the first two days, it was tough.   Especially the wind direction that we had the first two rounds was really tough.   Today, a little less wind and a little bit better wind, especially for me at least, and some of the par3s played a little shorter today with maybe trickier pin positions.   At least it's easier to make par on them and I played good on them.   It was a good round.  
   
 Q.   Have you felt that it's been coming?   I know the year hasn't been brilliant, but you said about 12 rounds in 15, you felt the game was getting there?  
PETER HEDBLOM:   The thing is I never had one round to get some confidence back.   Like I said, I can start off playing 12 holes really good, could be 3‑ or 4‑under in the tournament, and I'm thinking, oh, now I'm playing good again.   And I make three or four bogeys and I shoot 1‑under.   
So I haven't really brought anything back from the rounds.   A lot of times I feel like I'm hitting the ball really good on the course but not doing it 18 holes.   Today, even though I shot 5‑under, two three‑putts the last four holes to shoot 5‑under, could have been even better.   But at least I'm very positive, happy with the way I'm playing.   
   
 Q.   It was the shoulder that caused the problems with the operation and injury?   
PETER HEDBLOM:   2011, I didn't play that year, so I came back 2012, maybe too early, I don't know.   But I started playing, and you think you're going to not mind missing a few cuts, because you just play but after a while when you start missing accounts, it gets into your confidence, and you start playing poorly, poorly, it's not good.  
It's been tough.   I haven't played really good since 2012 and this is probably the first round‑‑ well, I played a few decent rounds 2012 but this is the best this year.  
   
 Q.   And good enough to be in a prominent position, so you have a nice Sunday to look forward to.   
PETER HEDBLOM:   Yeah, that's been a while to wake up on Sunday and still have a chance.   We don't know what the guys are going to do, but I don't think I'm going to be more than five or six shots behind at least if they play really good today.   So hopefully I have a really good chance.   
   
 Q.   What's the difference in your play today?   
PETER HEDBLOM:   Six shots better.   No, today I actually played really good, but it was easy today, as well.   The course played easier today than the first two days.   The first two days was really tough.   
Today the par3s, they moved them up, even though it was a tricky pin position but a little less wind as well, and the wind, for me‑‑ I don't know, the wind direction today was more right‑to‑left on the key holes and that suits my game better, so like 17, 16, made bogey on that, so that was different.   
But I've been putting good the first two days and kept holing a lot of putts today and played much more solid the whole round, not like the other days I'm playing good for 13 holes and today I played 18 good holes.  
   
 Q.   Your ranking has limited your play this year but it's not been a good year, 204 on the Order of Merit is not where we expect to see you; what's been the problem?   
PETER HEDBLOM:   I played bad last year.   I had an operation on my shoulders in 2011 and came back last year, and didn't really get the confidence‑‑ you start to play poorly and the confidence went, and then it's been continuing.   
So this was the first tournament in a while, first round I played 18 good holes.   It was not 13, 15; it was 18.   Very happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Obviously going to be in the mix tomorrow, how exciting is that to have an opportunity to potentially win this thing?  
PETER HEDBLOM:   Yeah, that's why we play and like I said, I haven't been very close the last couple of years.   It's going to be a fun day tomorrow hopefully.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT