JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 30, 2009
Peter Hedblom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON: Well, Peter, many congratulations, the Johnnie Walker Championship winner for 2009. You came close last week, so this must be even sweeter to pull it off this time.   
 PETER HEDBLOM: Yeah, I mean, it feels unbelievable! On that last putt, I don't want to do another playoff, not another playoff. But I mean, I played really good, if I compare to last week, I felt much more pressure teeing off and playing the first couple of holes; I felt really relaxed today. I was hitting good and started really good on the range and everything. And then I made bogey on that 15, I knew I needed to make another birdie coming in, and when I did that, I felt really pressure. It wasn't easy, but no, what a feeling to win again. Should do this more often.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Sometimes people get on adverse reaction from being in contention like you were last week, but clearly it gives you the motivation to keep going.   
 PETER HEDBLOM: Definitely. I think last week, like I said yesterday, I mean, the whole year has been tough and just for me to get my card, stop thinking about that, just try to think on getting into Top 60, Race to Dubai, and when I got that off my shoulder last week, I mean, I knew I was playing good.   
 So if I could just use that confidence that I had from last week for this week, and yeah, I mean, then I got myself in good contention for two days. And then today, I could use that a lot, that confidence.   
  
  Q. Was it useful for you to have the target that Erlandsson set?   
 PETER HEDBLOM: No, actually I think that was harder for me actually. I think it's always harder. I like to not look at leaderboards. I saw his score and it felt almost harder for me. It would be easier for me to just play along and then had maybe got some guys that are actually playing holes and knew I had a target.   
 And I knew I had to beat that score to get in and some other guys, and Paul who is playing good, I thought Paul Lawrie played really solid today. He was hitting some good shots. Just didn't really get it close on some holes on some shots that he really hit good. Yeah, I mean, when he fell off, after when he bogeyed 12, really, and then he bogeyed 15, so it was just me and Erlandsson really, but yeah.   
  
  Q. What were you going to do --  
 PETER HEDBLOM: I thought it was 10-under, when I played my third hole. And then it was 11. And then 12. I mean, I couldn't believe it, shoot 10-under today, what a score, he should win like I said on prizegiving. Shoot 10-under on the last day, you should always win.   
  
  Q. Gets you into Shanghai, good start for next year --  
 PETER HEDBLOM: My goal has always been to get in Top-50 in the world so I can play -- I love playing the majors and I would love playing more world tour events. I haven't played any world tour events in my whole career. Those are tournaments you want to play. Throughout the years, the U.S. Open, I played twice and I've been playing all right. I think I can play with the best players in the world, especially now when my putting is good. I think definitely I can play with the best players in the world.  
 So now, you know, I want to get into that Top-50. At least now I'm getting closer but last year I was 77th after the last tournament, Valderrama, and after that, I was 200-something before playing the Dutch last week. So I don't know, I was 150-something this week. Maybe I'll move to around a 100 now. At least I'm on the right track now down.   
  
  Q. Good finishes at the U.S. Open?  
 PETER HEDBLOM: Yeah, I was 11th at Pinehurst 2005 and then I was 21st 2006.   
  
  Q. Does it mean more winning in Scotland?  
 PETER HEDBLOM: First of all, I never won on European soil.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Malaysia was the last one.  
 PETER HEDBLOM: Malaysia was last year and Morocco was my first one. To win in Europe was important to me and to win in Scotland, home of golf is even better. That's actually where you want to win. No, it feels -- I thought it was nice to win in 2007 but this win feels even better I think.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER HEDBLOM: You want to play the best tournaments and the best players. For me, that's what I strive for and that's where I get the energy to practise hard. I mean, I'm getting older now. Hopefully I can be the new Kenny Perry of Europe and I'm getting better, like a nice win.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Maturing nicely, are you?  
 PETER HEDBLOM: Yeah, I think I am.   
 No, but I mean I forgot to say thank you to Lars Evertsson, my mental guy, he's done a great job working with me. I started working with him before Munich, just the week before Munich. I've been struggling the whole year. He is starting to get me more goals when I practise and everything. My putting was not strong and we worked a lot on that, and I have to thank him a lot because I felt so much more relaxed when I putt now under pressure.   
 Before I felt like I was chipping under pressure and now I feel really comfortable, even having that last putt to win, I felt I could hit a good stroke. You know, that just makes it even more fun now to play the other tournaments now, because I know I can put good under pressure and that's always been for me the weak side of my game.  
  
  Q. His name again?  
 PETER HEDBLOM: Lars Evertsson.   
 I've been trying to work -- I've been trying to practise more for pressure when I'm putting. He's been giving me drills and everything, and especially from three and four feet, those are the drills I've been trying hard on. And those are the putts like today, I had that really important putt on 17 from three feet, maybe 3 1/2, same on 18.   
 And I think with this practise, I feel much more comfortable to hit those putts, because that's -- when I'm practicing, I try to putt more under pressure. I need to hole those eight putts before I leave, and that last one is more pressure, and I think just doing those drills, you keep hitting those 3-footers, I know I can hole them.  
  
  Q. How long have you been putting this way?  
 PETER HEDBLOM: This is my -- off and on, I had it 2003, so I've been having it off and on. But now this is my second year now in a row. I haven't really changed now. Before I changed it, I changed short putter, long putter, belly putter, chest putter, anything. Just get something to go in the hole. Now I've got it and I've got this new Rossa putter two weeks ago at the British Open, didn't use it, started using it last week, so now two weeks, second and first, it's not a bad putter.   
 But yeah, I mean, a lot of new -- this week I had a new driver, as well. I changed the driver from last week. I had an R9 and changed it to a big 460 and that also was a big difference because under pressure my driving was a lot more solid today. I kept hitting the fairways and hitting it good, and that's what I need to do. That driver has been -- first time used this week and win straightaway. Thank you TaylorMade!   
 I also want to thank -- (laughter).  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER HEDBLOM: Who is this guy? Is he Swedish? We were talking and not thinking about anything other than golf. You try to think about other things, but it's winning, okay, what do I need, I need a birdie, I need a par, I need two pars now, oh, I should make birdie instead of thinking pars. You know, things that go through your mind is unreal when you don't win a lot. I would love being Tiger Woods, just go there, "Hmm, man, I've got to win three, four shots." I didn't really feel good like that when I was playing.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: What were the key details on the golf course? You mentioned the clutch putts at 17, 18, but before that.  
 PETER HEDBLOM: No, I think all over, my putting was really good, but the birdie putts, the putt I holed on 8 after hitting, almost holing it on 7; 7 I hit a 6-iron.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: One inch?   
 PETER HEDBLOM: Yeah, just on the edge of the hole. I thought it was going to break right-to-left and more, no.   
 Then give myself a good chance on the next and holed that putt. And then birdie on the next. And then holed on 10th. I think those four holes there, so I got that momentum going and I was 13-under by then.   
 Then I knew I could try to play good and make another birdie. I really wanted to make birdie on the 14th, because I knew 15, 17, wasn't easy holes today, especially 15. I thought I hit a good putt on 15 but just missed it.   
 But 7, 8, 9, 10, that's where I took the lead and I think that's why I won the tournament.   
 10, I hit a 5-iron, good 5-iron just leaked out a little bit, just missed the green, just off the green and hit a great putt through. It was actually through a little bit of rough, putted through that, five metres, five yards maybe.  
 GORDON SIMPSON: Peter, many congratulations again and enjoy a few Johnnie Walkers tonight.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT