JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2009
Peter Hedblom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT: Peter, thanks for coming in and joining us. Well done today. Another very good performance and a good position in the tournament. Just give us your thoughts on the round today and where you are just looking ahead to tomorrow. 
 PETER HEDBLOM: I mean, today's round felt really, really good. I didn't feel, you know, very good at the practise round this morning. I was a little bit delayed, as well, so I was hurrying up a little bit and didn't feel that good and didn't hit it very good.
 I came out and played really good today, very similar to last week when I played really good the third round. I didn't really hit too many bad shots and felt like I holed some putts, as well, which is not that easy on the greens, but overall, it was a fun day. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: It's following on the form of last week, I know you had some time off, but you played very well last week and you seem to be carrying that on. 
 PETER HEDBLOM: Yeah, in the past, sometimes I struggled with the week off that I played good. But this week, I'm really trying to take all of the confidence I got last week to bring it on this week. And I thought if I can give it a chance for two rounds and play in one of last groups, I can use that confidence that I have right now. 
 Yeah, I felt really good today and relaxed, so hopefully I can feel like that tomorrow. 

 Q. Was there a reason for your delay in particular? 
 PETER HEDBLOM: Because we are staying so close, it's a problem. And I have my wife here (laughing). 
 No, actually I tried to warm up pretty close to my round because I struggled with my shoulders a little bit, right and left shoulder. And so I tried to warm up, because last week I had my physio guy with me and now I have to do everything myself, so I tried to warm up in the gym pretty close, so I warm up and started hitting the balls. But today has actually been -- I've been a little delayed and it seemed to work, so do the same thing the tomorrow. 

 Q. Which shoulder?
 PETER HEDBLOM: The right shoulder, I've struggled with that the last two years, not really pain, but a little bit all the time, especially when it gets cold. And then last week the left shoulder started to feel a little bit, but left is all right now and right is back again. 
 It's just sometimes I feel stiff, and when I have to wait, I feel like I get stiff in the shoulder.

 Q. So you just spent longer than you thought in the gym, is this delay?
 PETER HEDBLOM: Yeah.

 Q. The Tour physio gym? 
 PETER HEDBLOM: Yeah (laughing). No, the gym in the hotel. 

 Q. Give us the timings, how much? 
 PETER HEDBLOM: No, I normally I like to be maybe an hour and ten minutes on the course at my locker and my caddie and today I probably was one hour, so maybe 55 minutes. So when I go up to the putting green, I had like 50 minutes left, so started to warm up. For me that's a little bit delayed. 

 Q. (Inaudible).
 PETER HEDBLOM: No, I never do it when I'm warming up. Then you lose confidence, I haven't tried it this week, from four feet, it's very hard two days in a row. 

 Q. How much of a disappointment is last week, or is it more a positive you took from it?
 PETER HEDBLOM: The way I've been playing this year, and then the way to me, it felt like I played the last two days, and the last day was a lot of pressure on me. You know, just tried to play good to get enough money to keep my card and everything, and so don't think about that. 
 So I knew I need to finish top two or three to have that off my back really, and it felt like I didn't really -- last tournament I felt like I played good at the end, I made two birdies coming in the last four holes, so it felt more like Dyson played well and I didn't really lose it. I shot 1-under the last day and that was not too bad. 

 Q. You shared the lead with Paul Lawrie and you seem to share a sponsor, can you tell us about that? 
 PETER HEDBLOM: Yeah, we have got the same management company, 4 Sports, and Michel Jordi, it's a Swiss company, so yeah, we have got the same sponsor. Peter Hanson is in the same management company, Eduardo Molinari has got the same thing. It's a watch, a very nice watch. You should try and buy it, all of you, if you can afford it, mmwwwaa-ha-ha (laughing devilishly). It's a nice watch, Swiss watch.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: How much are we talking about, Peter? Put a figure on it.
 PETER HEDBLOM: The watch, I think I have is almost like 55,000 francs.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Not too many takers in here to be honest I don't think. 

 Q. (Inaudible).
 PETER HEDBLOM: I don't even think about that. I'm just going to go out tomorrow and I mean, it would be great to win. I have four losses in playoffs since 2003, so it feels like I haven't won enough tournaments out there, so of course I want to win tournaments. 
 But last week actually felt after the last day on Sunday, it always feels disappointing not winning, but the next day I still felt pretty good. Tomorrow is a new day, and of course I would love to win the tournament. I'm going to do everything in my power to do it, but, golf is golf. And the greens are the greens (laughing).
 So no, it's going to be fun tomorrow again. At least I'm in the same position and I think I'm going to feel a lot more relaxed tomorrow than I did Sunday last week. 

 Q. (Inaudible).
 PETER HEDBLOM: It's a routine, it's a new putting I've been doing since six, seven weeks trying to go back from three feet, hole eight in a row, and then I go four feet and need to hole eight in a row, and it's helped me a lot in putting. Normally I always go through it. Sometimes it takes two hours. Here I've been working hard but I haven't really managed to go from four feet. Three feet, no problem. Four feet, haven't managed yet. 

 Q. How long does it take?
 PETER HEDBLOM: The other day I probably stood like almost two hours, and so I was like pulling my hair out, because I just want to finish it and I said, maybe it's just better you go home now and relax. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Peter, well done. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT