NASCAR CAMPING WORLD TRUCK SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 200
November 16, 2012
Timothy Peters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KERRY THARP:   Joining us now is the runner‑up in the 2012 NASCAR Camping World Truck Series championship battle, and that's Timothy Peters.   He drove the No.17 Toyota Tundra for Red Horse Racing.   Timothy, you had a super year.   You might have come up a little short for the championship, but congratulations, and just talk about how the season played out in your mind.   
TIMOTHY PETERS:   Oh, man.   This season has been A+++.   From where we were at a year ago when we left Homestead to where we are this year leaving Homestead is leaps and bounds.   Butch Hylton and I have a great relationship.   He works hard on this Toyota Tundra every week, makes great calls on the box, and he even puts up with me being fussy on the radio.   
You know, this race didn't go the way we wanted it to go, but in the end it showed how we persevered, come home with a decent finish and come up six points short.   You know, that's disappointing, but every year that I've been at Red Horse Racing we've improved in points.   Butch has a good philosophy.   He says you have to lose one of these to win one, so we lost it, so next year hopefully we're on the other side of the spectrum.   
   
 Q.   What was the issue with the truck tonight?   Why couldn't you get it basically handling the way that you wanted to to make a run?   
TIMOTHY PETERS:   Well, we couldn't get going on the short run, but on the long run the truck would come in perfect.   It would just start off too free.   I didn't help matters none by hitting the fence early in practice early this morning, and it just put us behind.   
But I'm not going to get down about it or beat myself up because energy starts at the top, at the team.   Those guys worked their butts off, we had great pit stops tonight, and like I say, we persevered.   We came up a little bit short, but it wasn't like that anything was clinched early in the race.   It came down to the last lap.   
I'd have liked to have been a little better here in the short run, maybe gained a little bit more positions where we could have put a little more pressure on the 31, but this is the way the good Lord meant for it to come out, so this is it.   
KERRY THARP:   Certainly a super year.   I know you've got a baby on the way.   That's even going to be better.   Congratulations, and we'll see you when we see you.   Congratulations.   
TIMOTHY PETERS:   All right, thank you, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT