NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 4, 2019
Mike Shildt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mike Shildt.   
 Q.  You flip-flopped Wong and DeJong in your lineup today. Can you tell us?  
MIKE SHILDT: Just a lefty-righty. Yesterday with Keuchel in there. And today with Foltynewicz, just flipped it up.   
 Q.  After Carpenter's big at-bat yesterday was there any consideration to adding him into the lineup today against a righty, or do you like that opportunity for him to, when he takes an at-bat, you know it's going to be a big one late in the game?  
MIKE SHILDT: Yeah, that was definitely the biggest consideration in the lineup, big at-bat by Carp. The beautiful thing about him being able to do that is he can obviously contribute starting, but he also can take that at-bat and know that's there for you.   
So a lot of different ways you can go with it. But Carp coming off the bench, taking that big at-bat is where we'll go today.   
 Q.  What's something about Jack Flaherty that maybe we don't know that we should know?  
MIKE SHILDT: I'm not sure. He's very stylish. He's a very well-dressed young man.   
 Q.  We've seen Ryan Helsley in recent weeks go from a multi-inning guy to a guy used more in shorter stretches. Obviously last night a really high-leverage spot for him. Can you speak to what the planning looks like for him and that sort of role that maybe he's developing into here?  
MIKE SHILDT: The roles get fluid based on the game goes. He's a multiple-inning guy, but some games don't call for that. Last night was one of those games, once we used Geo to get out of the six, and then Breb to get the seventh, Hels came into play for that situation in the eighth.   
Good news, we've got a lot of guys that can handle that situation. We always want to put them in the best situation. So he'll continue to get opportunities to pitch.   
 Q.  Shorter spot, obviously. But he'll be there in case of emergency?  
MIKE SHILDT: There's always a thought, Dakota's a ground ball guy. But we also have guys that can take that spot. And once you get past a certain spot in the beginning of the game yesterday, then Dakota falls into that tenth-inning situation.   
 Q.  I think the word Yadi used last night to describe Carlos is passionate. We see that in all forms with him. He can run at a pretty high RPM. How much of that is where his talent comes from and you don't want to limit? And how much because of the role he has and how much is at stake when he's in a game do you ask him to kind of control that?  
MIKE SHILDT: I think that's just the key to it. Listen, we always want to appreciate -- I enjoy the shirt, "let the kids play," want the guys to be themselves. It doesn't work to -- or suggest they be something who they're not.   
With that being said, it's about channelling what your strengths are. And in Carlos's case, Yadi uses an appropriate word for Carlos and that's the passion. I wouldn't dream of dialling that passion down, just channelling it to where it can be usable for him and making sure he's in the moment.   
But one of the big assets that Carlos has is that passion and that strong desire to compete in whatever situation. The bigger the better for him.   
 Q.  Do you think Carlos has an out or an even an inning in him today after the inning-plus last night?  
MIKE SHILDT: Yeah, he gave me a hug after the game and said, I will be ready to go tomorrow, Papi. He'll be fine.   
 Q.  Your team has shown the ability to win in a lot of different ways this season. How much of that came into play last night and helped you guys to secure that win?  
MIKE SHILDT: A lot of different ways. It's competition, so we just look at it somewhat holistically. You want to figure out the best way you can give yourself an advantage at every turn. And this group has been dedicated to that.   
The good news is we have a roster that has that flexibility and the players allow that as well. You mentioned Carp. He can come off the bench and take that at-bat, big at-bat when he takes that at-bat for at Harrison.   
Then you look at Harrison, who was able to us his speed to beat out an infield single, and use his speed to take third. Then you see Dex get him in.   
You see Dex going first to third with the base running. So you saw a couple different ways on the bases we were allowed to compete yesterday.   
You saw really good defense, Yadi throwing out Acuña in the first inning, couple of big-time blocks. Yadi with a nice play on Albies in the ninth, along with a nice play on Donaldson. So then you see Goldy hit the ball into the second tier.   
Ozuna hit a double and Kolten hit a double, so you see a lot of ways we can compete and needed every bit of it yesterday.   
 Q.  When you look at the way that the infield surface played early in that game versus later in that game yesterday, does that have to be a part of your defensive game planning when you look at maybe how those things might adjust based on whether it's the hour or the temperature or whatever else?  
MIKE SHILDT: I don't think you can overbake anything into -- our guys are professional defensive players, and they're aware of the conditions and will play accordingly.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT