NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 2, 2019
Mike Shildt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with Cardinals manager Mike Shildt.   
 Q.  Kolten told folks in the dugout he's game ready and ready to go. Is that your understanding as well?  
MIKE SHILDT: Kolten will be in the lineup tomorrow.   
 Q.  Can you describe the importance of Dexter Fowler in this series? It's also fun that he's playing in Atlanta, his hometown.  
MIKE SHILDT: Yeah, it was good. I talked to Dexter earlier today, caught up with him a little bit. And he was able to catch up with his parents and his niece and nephews, that kind of thing. Always good to get home, catch up with family.   
Dex is going to be a big part, like a lot of our guys with this series. And happy for Dex on a lot of levels. But most importantly for Dex he's glad he's contributing to us. So he's in a good spot and looking forward to watching him play.   
 Q.  We just talked to a few players, but they really seemed loose. Miles was cracking jokes up there and stuff. Is that something you've already tried to impart to them, just keep it loose, have fun, don't tighten up for the playoffs?  
MIKE SHILDT: I'm pleased to hear you say that. But it's not anything that we talked about. I think if you talk about it, it feels forced.   
It's just who we are. And it's not Kumbaya loose and all that, nothing wrong with that, but we also have some focus of what's going on, too. But we do want to enjoy what's going on. We've talked about that all season. And we've been able to do it and create that balance.   
You know we're going to compete. This group is highly competitive. But we also want to enjoy what we do, enjoy each other, enjoy that competition and enjoy this moment.   
This is really a byproduct of just the group being themselves, which I love.   
 Q.  Are you able to discuss kind of the makeup of your bullpen at this point to whatever detail you're willing?  
MIKE SHILDT: We'll release the roster in the morning.   
 Q.  Is it possible you might look at the opponent and take three lefties in your bullpen?  
MIKE SHILDT: I wouldn't rule it out.   
 Q.  Is Jack Flaherty definitely your second game starter?  
MIKE SHILDT: He is.   
 Q.  Would you discuss a third starter, a Game 3 starter?  
MIKE SHILDT: At some point.   
 Q.  What role do you envision for Dakota given his flexibility?  
MIKE SHILDT: Dakota will be in the bullpen starting tomorrow. Because he's flexible, we can see a couple different places for him. Obviously certain point in the game will dictate that. But Dakota will get a start but he'll start tomorrow available in the bullpen.   
 Q.  If you look at how the season went around baseball and a lot of people expect this postseason to be similar, just home runs, a lot of the scoring is going to come, would you say keeping them in the ballpark -- they're one of those teams with a lot of power, could be kind of the key for you?  
MIKE SHILDT: Absolutely. And this is a high fly ball group; they're looking to elevate the ball and get the ball in the air. So, our success is going to be controlling counts. It's not a mystery to anybody's success in any competition in baseball, but including the postseason, and being able to make our pitches and executing. Keeping the ball in the park is going to be important.   
 Q.  You've talked to baseball people or former managers throughout the season, anything specifically about the postseason or people you've spoken with or good advice that you've gotten in the last couple of days as you prepare for Game 1?  
MIKE SHILDT: I just lean on a lot of the advice I've been given, and then I have had some conversations that -- with some people that clearly you trust, respect. People reach out and give you some wisdom or you have a question about -- and the question is not, well I don't know if it's obvious or not, but just questions about more about logistical things. It can be a little bit about mindset.   
But I've had a few questions that have been beneficial for sure, and I'm very appreciative of them.   
 Q.  The other day you told us you had a conversation with Tony a number of years back where he said the difference between minor league postseason and Major League postseason was the folks paying attention. Is that what you're feeling so far?  
MIKE SHILDT: Yeah, listen it's baseball. Obviously we're going to be in a high visible environment in the stadium and externally this speaks to that as well.   
But ultimately it really gets down to playing the game, playing the game the right way and being prepared to make the right decisions and putting people in the right spots from my chair, and the guys going out and just playing and playing the game.   
So we talked about this all year and we've normalized it. Just don't make it any bigger than it is. And when something is bigger, then make sure you're clear about keeping it simple and just keeping your focus in a present state of mind. And then ultimately it's just a game.   
 Q.  I know it's made up of a bunch of individuals but can you describe the collective and maybe why as a group you guys are where you are today?  
MIKE SHILDT: I'm glad you brought that up because it's truly been a collaborative group effort. And the thing that's special about it, we have a ton -- me and Mike Shannon were talking about the character, just by definition what it means and the value of character. And we have a high-character group that has something that they share that's very uncommon or can be uncommon, and that's that they care more about the greater good than they care about themselves.   
We always want guys to do well individually. We expect them to want to do well individually. And we encourage them to want to do well individually. But this group has also been very sincere about whatever it takes for us to be playing in this moment, and they've done it. So that's a pretty special team.   
And the guys, including the roster, tough decisions. And guys are going to be on the outside looking in of being able to compete in this round. And being able to accept that and do your part in what that looks like speaks volumes to the character of the group within that.   
There's going to be guys that maybe not get the opportunity they want. Everyone's going to be fine with it. And they may have their own individual, internal -- which is just human nature and quite honestly very understandable, to where they go, ah, I want in there.   
I love that. I don't mind guys that feel like, I want in there; I want to do my part. But ultimately this group is going to step back and say, all right, that's what we need; that's what I'm going to do; I'll be there. So that's what's gotten us here.   
 Q.  You mentioned that Dakota Hudson will be in the pen for the start of this series. I realize the situations are different, but after Game 2 is it possible that Jack Flaherty could pitch a little bit in relief before Game 5?  
MIKE SHILDT: I wouldn't say it's an impossibility. But we'll have to -- the series will have to evolve.   
 Q.  Can you speak to the role that Matt Carpenter has had over this month? And what might he be able to contribute in the postseason here?  
MIKE SHILDT: Matt had a really good month and has done a really nice job in multiple roles. He's gotten some really big hits when he's been in the lineup as a starter, and he's done a really good job of coming off the bench and taking really good at-bats in situations that we want a quality at-bat. He's done a nice job in both roles. And I'm excited about him being able to participate depending on whatever that role looks like.   
 Q.  If Kolten is in the lineup tomorrow, what does that mean for Matt?  
MIKE SHILDT: It means you'll see the lineup tomorrow. But I'm not going to announce the lineup til tomorrow. Guys don't know that. That's fair.   
 Q.  Do you buy into the old adage that defense never slumps?  
MIKE SHILDT: I think one of the reasons we're here is because our defense has been a pillar for this team. So I believe in it completely. Again, me and Shannon were talking earlier. Pitching and defense, that's a great recipe to have.   
Clearly we're not unaware that offense is important; we need to score runs as well. But defense is very important and we've taken it very seriously. And I know it's been a big part of our club.   
 Q.  You talked about it a little right there, base running and defense are two things since you've taken over, you've really kind of drilled down and get back to the fundamentals. And it's shown this year. Now that you guys are on the postseason stage where every little thing counts, just how important are those fundamentals?  
MIKE SHILDT: Huge. You know, you look up and you watch, like we all have, a lot of playoff baseball or any game that's competitive or close, you look up and realize, I mean, games could be won in a lot of different fashions. Games can be lost in a lot of different fashions.   
The way we look and how we look to compete and the reason we're in this position is because we're looking to be able to do the winning part on a lot of different fronts. And it can come down to a defensive play. It can come down to base running and doing the little things, and we're good at them. And it's part of our DNA. So it will be something we'll just continue to rely on and be part of our strength.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT