AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2020
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A really lovely round for you here in the third round of the AIG Women's Open.  How different is Royal Troon playing today compared to the last few days?
KATHERINE KIRK:   So different.  But then again, depends what side of the draw you're on.  On Friday, I played with Perrine Delacour from France, and she said she didn't have to put the umbrella up once in two days.  I was lucky, but definitely better than what the forecast was and today was pretty darned nice.  So happy to get out there and post a number.
Q. Made the most of the nice conditions and a number of birdies.  Can you talk us through your round?  I believe a number of long putts for you today.
KATHERINE KIRK:   Yes, have to look at my yardage book to remember.  I rolled in probably three really long ones.  There was one on 15 that I rolled in from probably 15 yards off the green.  It was a 90-foot putt.  You don't expect to make those there.  Was probably five different shots I could have played, and my caddie said, you could putt, and in the end it worked out.  They are bonuses obviously, but nice to make some birdies and especially the last couple of days where you try to make easy pars and it's a grind.  So it was fun.
Q. The caddie definitely earned their pay out there with that advice.
KATHERINE KIRK:   I think he earned his pay the last two days in the wind and rain, yeah.  Kind of feel like a sailboat getting tossed about, but today was much easier, and nice to have Verners on the bag.  He's from Ireland, so he's used to conditions like this, and we did a much better job of picking the numbers today.
Q. How nice to move up the lead heading into the final round?
KATHERINE KIRK:   Super happy.  Everybody talks about Saturday being moving day, but nice to actually post one in the 60s.  I think you'll see good scores throughout this afternoon and it will take another low one to probably catch the leaders tomorrow.  Happy that it was a good day today.
Q. And what will be the mentality tomorrow?  Obviously prior to today, the course wasn't offering up a lot of birdie opportunities, will you be trying to push to find those out there tomorrow?
KATHERINE KIRK:   Yeah, you've still got to be careful around here.  You don't want to end up in any bunkers.  That's really the first kind of priority off the tee is figuring out where to leave your tee shots.
But certainly the greens are very receptive right now and yeah, if you can hit good approach shots, you can make some birdies for sure.  But tomorrow, I don't know.  I'll have to look at the weather, kind of figure out wind direction and take a look at hole locations and see how we go.
But I'm sure you'll see some scores this afternoon that will be good and it will take a low one tomorrow to have a chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT