THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 3, 2019
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, welcome everyone here to the Thornberry Creek LPGA Classic.  I'm joined here by the 2017 champion here at Thornberry, Katherine Kirk.
Katherine, how are you doing today?
KATHERINE KIRK: Doing great.  Ready to play in the pro-am and make some birdies.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Flashback to 2017.  You've probably gotten this since you won here, but how special is this place to you?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, it's amazing how much I enjoy coming back here.  Obviously, yeah, feel like the Oneida Nation has really embraced the tournament and the LPGA.
It's certainly made me feel really special, and it's been nice to come back and do media day and see everyone again and see what kind of changes are going on in the community and learn a bit more about the culture up here, how they promote women and what they're doing with the indigenous youth.
Yeah, it's just a really unique testimony from at that angle.  It's been fun to kind of watch that grow and just be a part of it.
THE MODERATOR: For you as well this is also a course that you went low here in 2017.  Broke records last year with Sei Young Kim.  What was it like witnessing history with Sei Young's win last year?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, that was fun to watch.  I don't think really anyone had a chance of catching her on Sunday.  She was just in this whole other zone and put on an absolute clinic.
I mean, records, obviously we're used to seeing them broken, but I don't think anyone expected her to totally smash them.  I mean, full credit to her.  She played great.  I'm sure we'll see some really low scores this week, too.
Yeah, hopefully maybe a 59 watch.  Never know.  That would be kind of exciting.  I think, yeah, golf course is in great shape, the weather looks good, so there will be plenty of birdies out there.
THE MODERATOR: How do you think you've changed as a player or changed and adapted to this course since winning it in 2017?
KATHERINE KIRK: I don't know if we had many expectations coming in.  I mean, obviously we knew the golf course was great; the setup was good.
But I think probably everyone was a bit surprised at the scores, how low they were the first year.  Obviously knew you had to be aggressive coming back here last year.
So I think you'll see a lot of girls go out that first day and try and get off to a really good start.  Because if you're too many behind going into the even Friday, it's going to be hard to catch up just because typically they're such low scores.
So I think you got to take the more aggressive mindset going into tomorrow and keep the pedal down.
THE MODERATOR: What would you say are the keys to your play here at Thornnberry and how coming off a nice finish last week at Walmart, coming here and using that?
KATHERINE KIRK: For sure this week is about making putts.  I would say if you looked at Sei Young's putting stats from last year and even maybe my stats from 2017 that we were in the mid- to high-20s every day.  Actually, Sei Young might have been low 20s actually, because you can't shoot what she shot without making putts.
Definitely want to get a hot putter and put a little extra time on the greens and get used to the greens.  The greens out on the golf course aren't as slopey as on the putting green out here, which is nice.  That typically yields more putts.  Yeah, just pedal down like I said and away you go.
THE MODERATOR: There could be some rain in the forecast this week as well.  Does that affect your strategy going into tomorrow?
KATHERINE KIRK: As far as course management goes or game plan, not really.  Just got to make sure you got a good routine with your caddie and stay as dry as possible.
I think maybe the greens might get a little softer so you could potentially be a bit more aggressive with your approach shots if they get more receptive.  For now, yeah, everyone has probably got a game plan already and it's just good going and executing.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  We'll open it up to anyone out here.
Q. Been a while between wins, from your last win until winning here.  Not that you were in relative obscurity, but what's it like becoming a celebrity in Green Bay and almost the face of this tournament in its third year?
KATHERINE KIRK: Well, it's an honor, really.  I think maybe I inspired a couple other players, too.  I look at Angela Stanford winning Evian, what, in September last year.  It had been a few years for her even.
Yeah, I mean, this is a great town.  Obviously golf is growing here and the LPGA is just excited to be a part of that.  Hopefully the tradition can continue.  Obviously got the Packers here so incredible football tradition, but be nice to keep the golf tradition going.
And I don't mind being the face of the tour and this tournament.  It's a pleasure, and, yeah, hopefully I can get that opportunity going forward.
THE MODERATOR: Just in my curiosity, what was it like when you first got here in 2017 and experienced Green Bay and now when you come back here?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I think obviously the crowds didn't really know what to expect because there hadn't been an LPGA event around here.  I think probably the closest we got maybe was U.S. Open at (indiscernible.)
Been neat to see how the community has embraced it more.  Crowds were better last year.  I think we've got more young kids coming out to watch and asking us questions and maybe showing interest in junior clinics.
That's what it's all about for us.  We want to see the game grow.  It's nice to see it grow globally and obviously we're a part of that every week.  When you get into communities like this and perhaps smaller communities, it's nice to see the locals come out, and we can perhaps have an impact on the next generations in these communities.
THE MODERATOR: You said you've done a lot with the Oneida Nation since winning here.  What are some of the most memorable times you've had?  You've come back and given clinics and learned more about their culture.  To you, what have been some of the most memorable parts of the last two years in playing here?
KATHERINE KIRK: The media day I got to do actually last month was pretty special.  We visited the elders, The Elder Community Center I should say, and also some veterans, and I got smudged.  That was very unique and certainly honored to be a part of that.
But I think obviously the sense of culture and respect amongst the Oneida Nation is really impressive.  Obviously we got a lot of countries and cultures represented on tour.  I think the more awareness that you have about other cultures and countries the more we can kind of raise tolerance and respect and appreciation.
There is something to be learned there for everyone.  So I have enjoyed getting to kind of learn about the Oneida Nation, and it's something I would not have had the chance to do if it weren't for this tournament.
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for Katherine?  All right, we will wrap it up here.  Thank you for coming through and good luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT