UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 6, 2018
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just overall how did this week feel for and you how was it like mixing it up as a team out there?  
KATHERINE KIRK: I loved every minute of it.  Played a lot of obviously team golf in Australia growing up, and then college golf in the States.  Other than this, haven't done it in, gosh, 15 years.   
So it's an amazing feeling to be on a team and just have four times the energy.  We obviously gave it a really good shot this week.  Disappointed we're not playing the singles, but we did all we could.  Yeah, just can only build from this experience and, yeah, come back with more firepower in 2020.   
 Q.  How proud are you of your teammates and being able to claw back?  
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, super proud.  Especially, yeah, we didn't get off to the best start.  We know in match play anything can happen.  We're all fighters, and that's kind of like the Aussie spirit.   
Yeah, super proud of the girls.  They played great, and Minjee and Su gave it an awesome effort in the playoff there; just obviously didn't go our way.   
Yeah, we can hold our heads high and be proud of our efforts this week.   
 Q.  You guys are pretty close in general.  You feel even closer?  
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I think so.  I think any time you play a team event and you combine as well as we did, it only just builds the camaraderie.   
Yeah, I would play with these girls in a split second again.  I love them to death.   
 Q.  Do you already have visions of coming back in two years to play?  
KATHERINE KIRK: Oh, yeah, yeah.  I can't speak for the others, but I'm obviously keeping an eye out on.  I missed out in 2016, and, I think, yeah, we all want to represent our country.   
When you get here and you know what's on the line, it just pumps you up that much more.  Yeah, I know the girls really enjoyed the match play format, too.  I think they'll be looking forward to regaining their spots for 2020.  Wherever it is, very excited to have the chance to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT