THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 8, 2018
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All the fun on Thursday; tough after that.  Just never got it going?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, ball striking was good; the putter just kind of cooled off, I guess.
Actually today, aside from the first two holes, was probably my best ball-striking day.  Just goes to show you how crazy golf is.
Overall I'm really happy.  It was an awesome week.  Yeah, just so thankful to have the opportunity.
Q. I was going to ask you what the week was like as the inaugural champ, defending champ, and how you were treated all week.
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I don't think I've ever felt this special at a tournament before.  It might even rival how we get treated in Australia, to be honest.
Yeah, had a great week.  Very thankful for the fans and the volunteers and all the media that came out to report on us, too.
Yeah, just a delightful week.  Yeah, leaving with some good memories again.
Q. This might just be your personality all the time, but it looked like you really embraced the role of defending champion.  You helped grow this thing.  It was a first-time event.  Who knows where it goes?  You really took it upon yourself to talk to fans even during the tournament rounds and everything.  Is that just who you are every time, or did you take an extra little bit of responsibility as a champion to help grow it?
KATHERINE KIRK: Well, my parents taught me that that cost nothing to be nice.  Obviously being a Christian I believe in treating people the way I want to be treated, so I try to do that every week.
I suppose this week maybe more people would talk to me, so maybe I was doing a bit more talking.  Certainly being the defending champ is an honor, and anything that comes along with it you want to embrace it.
Yeah, just glad I had the opportunity to do it.
Q. What does to say about what Sei Young is doing out there right now?
KATHERINE KIRK: In a word, phenomenal.  We knew that you could go low around this golf course, but she's, yeah, taken it to a whole 'nother level.
It's pretty exciting to watch really.  She's going to break I think, what, our all-time 72-hole scoring record pretty easily.  She's a great player.  She obviously knows how to win.  She just kept the foot down, and, yeah, compliments to her.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT