THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 4, 2018
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, welcome to the Thornberry Creek LPGA Classic media center.  I have the defending champion, Katherine Kirk.  Katherine, welcome.  How does it feel to be back?
KATHERINE KIRK: Great.  Went out on the course yesterday and got a little bit of good vibes back from last year.
Yeah, the golf course is awesome shape.  It's nice to feel welcomed.  Everyone has been, Hey, congrats; glad you're back.
Yeah, it's been a great week so far.
THE MODERATOR: It had been a while since you won.  What's it like walking around and seeing your face everywhere out here?
KATHERINE KIRK: A little weird.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, but, I mean, it's part of I guess promoting the tournament and tour.
Yeah, I am honored that I was the inaugural winner.  Yeah, it's going to be a tough defense, but, yeah, delighted to do it.
THE MODERATOR: Last year you birdied the 18 hole to win at 22-under par.  What do you remember from that week?
KATHERINE KIRK: Well, several different things.  Obviously, yeah, everyone made a lot of birdies, especially on Sunday.  I think, yeah, it was a little closer than I would've liked, but certainly relieved that that putt on the last went in.
Yeah, so, I mean, I was kind of relaxed all week.  I think obviously folks up here are pretty laid back, especially in the summer.  I would like to see it in the winter and catch a football game.
Yeah, as far as atmosphere goes it was very relaxed and people were really friendly.  Even on Sunday going around the golf courses, you know, there were tons of kids out watching and cheering us on, so that was nice.
But, yeah, obviously it was a birdiefest, so I would expect it to be the same this year.  That's always fun as a golfer, when you're shooting low scores.  I think Sei Young Kim shot like 10-under on Sunday.  I think the fans appreciated the good golf, too.
THE MODERATOR: This year you've had a couple top 25s.  How do you feel your game is going this year?
KATHERINE KIRK: Kind of like last year:  A bit of a roller coaster for the first half, and then finally got good momentum and confidence.  So much of this game is confidence.
Yeah, I've had a few swing issues this year that I was obviously not happy with.  I think I've got a little bit of that ironed out.  I love this golf course, so hopefully this will be another turning point for me.
THE MODERATOR: On Monday you were involved with the UL International Crown team announcement.  Just before we open it up for questions, how excited are you to be a part of Team Australia?
KATHERINE KIRK: Super excited, especially since I missed the last one.  So made the 2014 team and the buzz was incredible there being the first year and first time I got to represent Australia as a pro.
Obviously being Aussie we don't get to play Solheim Cup, so that was kind of the one event we could wear the green and gold.  And then obviously the Olympics got added.
But it's such a great event.  I love that format.  Yeah, really happy to be back on the team.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions for the defending champ.  Start in the front.
Q. How did winning here last year change your life and your outlook on golf in general?
KATHERINE KIRK: Probably didn't change my life a whole lot, but in terms of the golf, it was, yeah, a nice reminder that the hard work does pay off and I can still compete out here.
This is my 15th year on tour; last year was 14.  When you play that long and you haven't had a win you kind of start to question, Have I still got what it takes?
So certainly, yeah, the win proved that I can still compete.  Obviously there is a ton of enjoyment that comes with winning, too.  That inspires you to keep working hard and obviously marks you more hungry for success.
So it's certainly spurred me on to the last half of the year.  Yeah, just so much talent out here.  You got to keep grinding.  Yeah, unfortunately, you got to take the good with the bad, but, yeah, it's just part of golf.  It mirrors life in that regard.
Q. When you won here last year you said you were going to go out and recruit more players to come this year.  Just curious, did you do that?  Did you talk up this event after you won?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I tried to.  Everyone has their own ideas about schedule, so as much as you can try to convince them, they have their own plan in mind.
Obviously this summer I think we've got nine straight events, so always a tough stretch.  Certainly, yeah, the girls that are here that played last year are excited to be back.  Yeah, looking forward to the week.
Q. Katherine, you talk about how confidence is so key.  When you get back out on the course these last couple days for practice rounds, does that muscle memory kick in?  I remember this hole?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, playing yesterday certainly -- I mean, I remembered the golf course but didn't totally remember what I shot each four days.  I would have to look at the results.  Yeah, I mean, obviously remember how I played certain holes.  I guess it's a course that suits my eye.
I know the scores are going to be low again this week.  The golf course is in perfect shape.  We got good weather forecast.  I don't know if 22-under will be the winning score again, but we'll certainly give it a crack.
I know there will be other girls going low out there, too.  Yeah, just charted the course as best I could yesterday.  Nothing changed too much in the game plan.
I play early tomorrow, so I expect the greens to be really good.  Got to get to have to a hot start, because going to take a low one to win this week.
Q. Any added pressure because you played so well the last time?  You think about that coming in?  Is it just that the golf course suits and you try to out of sight, out of mind it?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, there is a little pressure, but this is obviously a new year.  You can have a career week and someone else has a career week and beat you by one or two.  That's just part of golf.
Do I expect to win?  No.  Would I like to win?  Absolutely.  The only thing I can control is kind of my game plan and executing that as best I can.
I know that's cliche, but, yeah, certainly some good memories in there for me to draw from as well.
Q. As has been the case for a couple years now, seems like the parity is really, really strong in women's golf.  Can you just talk about why it's so difficult to repeat as a champion?  I think it's only two so far that have done it this year, and just why there is such a strong field right now.
KATHERINE KIRK: I think, yeah, every year the tour gets stronger and stronger.  Certainly the younger players have access to better information, better coaching, better equipment.  So from that standpoint the level of talent has probably stayed the same, but obviously better information that they're using so more girls are able to capitalize on that.
I think, too, with more media coverage girls get even more hungry to make it out here and win out here.  If you look on the scoring averages and birdie averages and all that sort of thing, all those stats have improved over the years, too.
It just means you got to work that much harder to remain competitive.  I think a lot of the tournaments we've had this year have gone into playoffs, so that proves, again, how hard it is to win out here.
But I think as the young girls get better, that pushes us to be better, too.  I think if you ask any veteran playing, their game today is better than when they were a rookie.
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for Katherine?  Is it safe to say you're officially a Packers fan?  Saw you in the jersey last night.
KATHERINE KIRK: I am actually, and I got to say partly because it's green and gold, right?  So Aussie colors, Packers colors same.  Also big Clay Matthews fan.  I got to admit I liked watching him in Pitch Perfect, so...
(Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Katherine.  Best of luck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT