THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round.  I want to start with yesterday first, though.  Talk about the conditions that you played in and then when you found out that it was being scrapped, your reaction to the start.
KATHERINE KIRK: We were the first group out, so probably -- the golf course was playable for the first eight and a bit holes, and then right when that -- I don't know, that deluge hit, the wind, that was the worst conditions I've ever seen on a golf course, worse than Hoylake a few years back, worse than -- yeah, worse than any I've seen.
Q. What did you do, hunker down?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I stupidly actually hit a third shot on 18, and yeah, it landed on the green, then blew back in the water.  I probably should have actually waited a little longer because it was unplayable, and you'd think a veteran like me would know better.  Kind of a rookie error.
Yeah, initial reaction to the cancelling of the whole round?  I don't know, I was on the fence, actually.  Obviously the golf course yesterday was unplayable afterwards, but we did get eight holes in, so maybe we could have gone out there this morning, restarted and had at least eight holes under our belt.  We were first out, like I said, so it's not like -- the last group in the morning was only on the first hole.  I don't know, it's a tough call to make either way.  You're going to make some people happy, some people mad, but once the decision was made, I'm one of those people that's like, okay, can't do anything about it, just move on, and tomorrow is a fresh start.  Don't think too much about it.
Q. How many shots did you hit in really bad conditions?  Not unplayable but bad?
KATHERINE KIRK: 18 for us wasn't easy because the wind had certainly picked up, and yeah, I mean -- it was just one hole for us.  It was windy all morning, and it wasn't easy, but it wasn't impossible to play.  Like I said, eight holes were fine, but then, yeah, right at the end it was the worst conditions I've ever seen.
Q. You said what a difference a day makes.  What was the difference outside in perfect weather?
KATHERINE KIRK: That's all, yeah.  Sunshine and --
Q. So your swing felt good yesterday, too?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, everything was fine yesterday.  It's just easier conditions today.  We've got no wind right now and the greens are soft, so you can pretty much throw darts at it.  You'll see a bunch of good scores out there, I think.  Yeah, the greens are really receptive right now, but they're rolling well, too, so you can make putts no problem.
Q. What were the conditions like in terms of how much moisture was on the ground, how wet it was out there?  Did you have any bad spots?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, it's really soggy every hole, and you've got mud on your ball every hole, but with the amount of rain that we've had not just yesterday but I guess the last week or two, the golf course is at pretty high saturation.  But we're used to that being here in September.  I guess it's just par for the course.  I wish we could play the ball down, but it would be crazy.  There's too many mud balls.
Q. Does it bother you that it's only a 54-hole major now?  Does it sort of have an asterisk by it?
KATHERINE KIRK: It's unusual, yes, but it's not the first time.  Yeah, I don't know if everyone could have agreed to play the 72 and finish Monday.  I don't know if -- I'm not the powers that be, so I don't know what goes on behind closed doors.  I mean, would I love to play 72?  Yes.  But now that it's 54, it is what it is.  I can't do anything about it.  We don't lose sleep over things I can't control.
Q. Were you surprised Monday seemingly was not an option?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I guess, a little bit surprised.  But with the weather forecast maybe for Saturday, Sunday, they thought we'd be lucky to finish -- I don't know what the thinking is, but I'm guessing they considered it, but obviously something made them decide on 54, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT