THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 8, 2017
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How has your putter been this week?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, really weird, actually.  I know I can putt well, but I think I'm like pushing the limits right now.  It's fun.  I mean, I made, I think, a 19-footer on 17 and a 19-footer there for par.  It's unexpected, but you certainly take them when you can.
Q. Sleeping on a lead going into Sunday; how does that feel?
KATHERINE KIRK: Great.  It's been a while.  Actually I had to kind of scratch my head and think for a bit.  Yeah, I mean, I've been playing pretty well lately, trending at least in the right direction, so I mean, I like this golf course.  It suits my eye, and I think it's going to take another low one tomorrow.  You saw some really good scores out there today.  It's not over until it's over, right?
Q. How good were the fans out there?  Sounds like you had a good following out there.
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, particularly on the back nine.  I think people came out and -- they've been awesome all week, so hopefully they've enjoyed it as much as we have.  This is the first year here, and it's been a great event so far, so looking forward to coming back.
Q. Your tee shot on 18 went right, your second shot went left; how great was it to save par like that?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, thanks to the putter, right?  The tee shot was just a little quick at the top, so caught it a little heavy and went right, and then the bunker shot I hit a little fat, so it always goes left out of the sand, so happy to make par for sure.
Q. Game plan heading into tomorrow?
KATHERINE KIRK: Pretty much the same as it's been the last three days.  I said to my caddie, I feel like 4-under is about even par out there just because you get so many good birdie opportunities and a lot of wedges into holes, a couple reachable par-5s.  Yeah, I'll be trying to get a couple under my belt early just to kind of give me some breathing room.  But yeah, a lot of golf still to be played.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT