THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 7, 2017
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. As good a round as you've had in a while?
KATHERINE KIRK: I think it might be my best on the LPGA.  Yeah, I'm trying to think -- I know I've had eight but I don't know if I've had nine, so yeah, really happy with it.
Q. Was there a shot that told you, it's going to be a good day?
KATHERINE KIRK: To be honest, I felt like I was striking it well yesterday, I just didn't really capitalize.  I don't know if I had one of those points today.  My philosophy was just keep giving myself chances even if I'm 10 over par and still try and make birdies coming in.  I made a really good swing on 17, the par-3, and knocked it to like four feet, so I guess that felt pretty good because it's not an easy hole and certainly one of the tougher hole locations.  You know things are going right when you're hitting a little 4 hybrid in to four feet.
Q. I'm sure you're not surprised by the scores the way they are right now because you've played all week.  But are you surprised that you're the one setting the pace?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yes and no.  I mean, I've been hitting it pretty well lately, but just -- yeah, I always kind of struggle a little bit with timing or something is not quite hot when everything else is firing.  It was funny, my husband was up here Monday and Tuesday with me, and he said to me last night, someone could easily shoot 8-under around here.  I'm just happy it was me, or 9, I guess.
Q. It's been six or seven years since your last win on the LPGA; is that true?
KATHERINE KIRK: Seven years, there you go.
Q. Do you let yourself start thinking at this point, the way you're thinking and playing?
KATHERINE KIRK: I mean, obviously I'd love to win, but there's a lot of golf still to be played.  Yeah, I mean, it's only Friday, so I can't get too far ahead of myself.
Q. How about temperature conditions, just better conditions today, ball drive a little bit farther, little bit easier with less humidity?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I mean, perfect conditions really.  We only had a little bit of breeze, but the greens for us are softer than usual, so we're able to basically throw darts at it, and I think that's why you're seeing so many low numbers out there.
Q. How about your last nine holes?  You really seemed to turn it on.  A 28 I think you shot on the back nine.  What kind of turned on the back nine?
KATHERINE KIRK: Just lots of opportunities.  I mean, the two par-5s that you have on the back nine are both reachable, so I'm trying to think -- yeah, I had a 4 hybrid into I think it's 14, and I made eagle there.  I guess, actually, no, 15 -- 15 is not reachable today.  I take that back.  But yeah, I just hit quality shots and had lots of looks inside kind of 10 feet, which is nice, because the chances are a lot higher making those than if you're outside 10 feet.
Q. Someone said earlier this is going to turn into a putting competition, do you agree, and if that does happen, are you comfortable with your putting that that could be beneficial for you?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, it is sometimes definitely a putting competition when the greens are this soft.  Like I said, you can throw darts at it, and we do have a lot of wedges out there, too, so I guess, yeah, come Sunday probably the winner will definitely be the one with the lowest amount of putts.
Q. The way you've been playing leading up to this tournament, did you feel like a round like this was coming for you?
KATHERINE KIRK: Not really.  You hope that they're in there, but it's golf.  I mean, the two girls I played with the last two days, they've both been playing really well, had good finishes last week in the major, and you'd think that they'd have some momentum coming in here, but golf is just a funny game, so you kind of ride the highs when you can and try and get out of the lows as fast as you can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT