MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2016
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you attribute that fantastic play to?
KATHERINE KIRK: I just made a lot of birdies today, which helps, and you kind of have to go low around here when you've got scoring conditions as good as they are. It was nice to see some putts drop today, and it'll take a low one tomorrow, I'm sure, but I'm just happy with the round today.
Q. What are you going to have to focus on to continue to climb that leaderboard tomorrow?
KATHERINE KIRK: Same thing I did today. I got off to a good start. I shot 3-under on the front nine and had it kind of going on the back and then kind of hit a lull on 15. But there's two birdie opportunities coming in, which is nice, and I think it's exciting for the fans, as well.
Q. Are you playing with the same mentality that you were playing with the past two days, or are you a little bit more aggressive now?
KATHERINE KIRK: Pretty much the same. I have stitches in my left thumb, and I didn't really know if I could tee it up this week, so I'm just happy to be here on Saturday. The swing was a little iffy the first day, but the thumb is starting to feel better, so I can't complain.
Q. What did you do?
KATHERINE KIRK: Cut it while slicing or getting an avocado seed out of an avocado. Making some guac and I didn't realize how sharp the knife was. The knife won that battle.
Q. You talk about 15, coming off of a birdie hole, what happened there?
KATHERINE KIRK: Just a quick transition with the driver, and it went left into the bunker, and then I hit that shot fat and obviously didn't get up-and-down. Kind of a rough bogey after you're on a good little stretch. But I was hoping I could get a birdie coming in, but not today. But overall I'm pretty happy.
Q. On this last one right here, difficult putt?
KATHERINE KIRK: We were actually on the clock, even on the last hole, so probably had to read it and kind of rushed my routine a little bit more than I'm used to. But I put a good stroke on it, and it had the right speed, so that's all I can do.
Q. Something you've been working on recently that's paying off for you for your first top 10 of the year?
KATHERINE KIRK: I've been hitting it all right for the most part of the year. I've played seven in a row, and then didn't practice all last week because of my thumb. Maybe the break did me good.
Q. Sometimes it works out that way.
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, sometimes it does. I've always liked this golf course, too. I think I've had maybe a T4 here before, and I think it's fun to play because it's old school. So good memories, and yeah, about time I started getting my act together, right?
Q. You mentioned earlier it's going to take a low score tomorrow. Do you feel like the way you played today, if you do that again tomorrow, that puts you right in there?
KATHERINE KIRK: Well, I don't know what the leaders are at right now, but where I'm at, I'd have to go really low, I think, because I would expect the girls to go low tomorrow, as well. I don't know. We'll see. It all depends upon, I suppose, if I can get off to a hot start and keep it going.
Q. Do you have to restitch after playing?
KATHERINE KIRK: No, so I've got a Band-Aid on it, and then we've been putting on -- we've cut like doughnut holes, little corn pads, cut those in half and kind of lined the stitches and putting tape around it. Little corn pads to take the pressure off the actual wound, and it's helping, but yeah, it's just a little bit awkward, I suppose.
Q. Does it still hurt at all?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, it actually does. Occasionally in my swing it'll hurt. But yeah, Tuesday was the first day I hit balls in nine days. Yeah, I didn't know whether I was going to be able to play, and we just kind of grinned and bear it.
Q. How many stitches?
KATHERINE KIRK: Five.
Q. Good decision?
KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I'm glad I played. Yeah. Beware the wounded golfer, right?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT