U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Nice to be in the red?KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I would have probably taken even par today, so to shoot 1-under, I'm really happy.
Q. Talk about the way the course is playing.  It's been hot all week.  Is is it getting really hot and dry out there, firm and fast, I should say?KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, I would say this is the driest and fastest it's been today.  Obviously, I don't have to tell you how -- we were able to reach those in two today, and that was kind of helpful in terms of making birdies.  Other than that, birdies are hard to make out there.
Q. What was it you were doing so well today, which part of your game to you feel the best about?KATHERINE KIRK: I hit a lot of greens.  I think I hit 15 greens.  So I guess I kept it out of trouble and didn't make too many mistakes.  I had a couple of three-putts, but they were both long.  So, I mean, it's going to happen out here, with the greens as fast as they are.  I was fortunate I made enough birdies to kind of equalize them.
Q. Men were saying last week that they thought even par could very likely win.  What do you think, considering the way the course is playing, what do you think the score would be?KATHERINE KIRK: Even par is always a good scores in a U.S. Open.  And I would have expected the course to get tougher the next three days, as well.  Unless we get rain.  So, yeah, I'll be happy if I'm even at the end of the week.
Q. It's a great start.  It's only the first round.  Being under par.KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, it's a good start, but they don't hand the trophy out on Thursday.  I have a lot of work to do.  We have, obviously, a great field and, yeah, LPGA Tour and the U.S. Opens, it's getting deeper and deeper every year, so it's nice to see.
Q. Nice to play tournament golf after the men did it?KATHERINE KIRK: Yeah, a lot of us came in last week and watched the guys, and pretty neat that we get to follow them.  And, obviously, there's a bit more publicity and comparison seeing how we are doing.  So I guess it's a good thing for the Tour.  And certainly the USGA has done a great job so far.
Q. (Inaudible.)KATHERINE KIRK: I don't know.  We played 17 -- I know it's only a par-3, but we played the same tee box today as they did on Sunday.  I don't know, I'd have to go back through my book.  But, yeah, there was a few holes out there where par is a good score.
Q. Has the course changed from the time you first teed off until the back nine when you were coming down the stretch?KATHERINE KIRK: I played early Monday morning and it was a lot, I guess, softer and a lot easier.  So, yeah, it has definitely firmed up and got harder out there.  But we expect that when we come to a U.S. Open.
Q. But did it change today, from the first hole, to the back nine?KATHERINE KIRK: Trying to think what my first hole was.  It seems like a while ago.  I don't think it changed a whole lot, no, no.  I was getting 20 yards release on a couple of shots early on and then it happened again on the back nine.  So, yeah, it was pretty consistent.
Q. What did you hit into 17?KATHERINE KIRK: Let me look.  I think I hit a 5 hybrid in there.  Which is like a 5-iron.  Yeah.  5 hybrid.
Q. What's that for you distance-wise, usually?KATHERINE KIRK: Anywhere between 70 and 75.  And it was 187 to the hole.
Q. Did you feel at any point feel overwhelmed with the golf course?KATHERINE KIRK: No, I mean, coming into an Open, you always know it's going to be tough and a grind.  So, yeah, your expectations aren't very high.  And, yeah, you just try to be patient on every shot out there.  It's the first round, you can't get ahead of yourself.
Q. Is the heat a factor?KATHERINE KIRK: I'm from kind of a warm part of Australia, so I grew up in this, so it's not too bad.  But I'm sure if 2:00 or 3:00 this afternoon it's going to be even warmer and it's nice today we got a bit of a breeze.
Q. With your long sleeve undershirt on in 90 degree heat, is there a reason for that?KATHERINE KIRK: They're just sleeves.  I don't like wearing sunscreen, and you sweat it off in this heat, anyway, so it's just easier to wear these.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT