NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Katherine Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Great round today.  You had six birdies and everything else par.  How do you feel about your round today?
 KATHERINE KIRK:   Very happy.  Got off to a good start.  Made three birdies straight out of the gate, so that was kind of nice.
 I put a new PXG putter in the bag this week and it was, yeah, behaving from the 1st hole.
 Q. Let it roll.
 KATHERINE KIRK:   So it was kind of nice.  It's called the one and done, so it's actually a one and going to make it.
 It rolled awesome.  I was super happy with it.  But, yeah, rolled in I think maybe an 18-footer on the 1st then a 36-footer on the -- our 11th, our 2nd.
 Yeah, that was kind of a nice start to the day.  Yeah, kept it going.
 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 KATHERINE KIRK:   Yeah, the putter can take all the credit for sure.
 Q. How does it feel to have the first round in?  You have two rounds left.  How does it feel to play a three-round event?  What was your mentality going into the week?
 KATHERINE KIRK:   The scores are always low here.  We know that coming in.  If you can get off to a great start, that always helps.  Obviously you can't win it on the first day, but you need a good number just to have a chance.
 I think, yeah, usually that 15 to 21 range is what wins out here.  We've had perfect conditions today and you're going to see a ton of good scores.  I'm just happy I got out there early and posted a good one.
 Q. Do you have a favorite first half, or do you like the back nine or a favorite hole?
 KATHERINE KIRK:   I think the back nine is a little easier, but favorite hole?  I like them all.  I've had some good rounds around here and good memories and --
 Q. Is it a course that changes day-to-day based on the different conditions, maybe weather conditions or pin locations?
 KATHERINE KIRK:   For sure.
 Q. Like always changing?
 KATHERINE KIRK:   Yeah, for sure.  We've been here where we've had like flood-like conditions and it's played super soft.  I think, yeah, having played here -- I think been here 14 years now -- I kind of know where it hit it off the tee.
 There is not a lot of drivers, to be honest, so course strategy is a big part of it.  Yeah, conditions are great out there.  Golf course is in fantastic shape.  You could be pretty aggressive this morning, and I don't think this afternoon will change too much.  They might get a bit more wind, but these girls are good.  They know how to handle it.
 Q. I've got two questions left.  This course is usually surrounded by fans.  How does this event feel different from previous years compared to other tournaments that we've already played?
 KATHERINE KIRK:   This is always one of our best spectator-attended events, so it was really weird.  We were talking about it on 17, which is like the party hole, par-3.  There is no grandstands, no people out there.  It's just a bizarre kind of feeling because you're used to tons of noise and people cheering.  You'll hear the odd Woo Pig Sooie, for the University of Arkansas.
 Kind of missed that out there, but I am sure there will be some folks, some residents out there hopefully during the weekend.  We're just glad to be playing.  Thankful to Walmart and P&G for putting it on in the crazy times we're in, but we're thankful.
 Q. Last question:  What are you going to do tonight to relax and get into the game mentality tomorrow?
 KATHERINE KIRK:   Probably go back this afternoon, do a little reading for small group, maybe watch some of the men's golf, chat with the hubby and maybe call the family back in Australia and catch up.
 Yeah, got a long time between now and the next tee time.  Lots to do.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT