GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 23, 2003
Suzy Whaley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SUZY WHALEY:  I wish the rain would go away, I can't control that.  We had a lot of fun.  I had a wonderful group.  We enjoyed ourselves tremendously.  It was great.

Q.  Are you happy the way that you hit it today?
SUZY WHALEY:  I didn't hit it 100% as well as I would like to in the beginning.  But every day it's getting a little better, a little bit freer, and I am feeling better out there.   I came in pretty strong the last 4 holes.  I feel pretty good about it. 

Q.  Is this the most people that you played in front of who were really looking at you the whole day?
SUZY WHALEY:  No, I had a good day at Corning, New York, once.  That crowd was very big.  It was probably more than that.  But for a pro-am day, absolutely, this is the most people I ever played in front of for a pro-am day.

Q.  Have you been able to relax so far, do you think you will be able to do that once you start playing tomorrow?
SUZY WHALEY:  Yes, I think the hardest part this whole week is getting ready for it; not being here.  Being here is the enjoyable part.  Yes, I'm thrilled to be here.  It's the opportunity of a lifetime.  I refuse to let it be anything else but that.

Q.  Do you think you're ready for tomorrow?
SUZY WHALEY:  Yes, I am ready. I am ready.

Q.  What are you going to do tonight?
SUZY WHALEY:  Probably go see my children, have some fun with them.  I haven't seen them since Monday.  I want to go see them and make sure camp went okay, have dinner with my family and my parents are in town.  My sister is here.  A lot of family and friends are in town that I will have dinner with tonight.  Take it easy in the morning.  Get my kids off to camp.  It's kind of like a normal day for me since it's here.  The more normal things I can do, I think the better it will be.

Q.  We talked to Michelle McGann who was following you, that was a little surprise for us, what is she doing here?
SUZY WHALEY:  I didn't tell you?  She is a very good friend of mine.  She is here supporting me.  Her father is on my golf bag this week as my caddy and she did not go to the Evian Masters and she decided to come watch me play which is really sweet.

Q.  Suzy, how are you going to sleep this week?
SUZY WHALEY:  Funny, I didn't think I would sleep well at all this week but I'm sleeping great.  I think I'm wearing myself out enough during the day that I'm so tired that I don't have time not to sleep.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
SUZY WHALEY:  Oh, it was great.  He is just such a good guy.  We talked about it a little at Olympia Fields about him coming and playing.  At the time you know I was a little naive thinking it was a scramble format.  I thought I could definitely use his driver in the bag.  He is such a gentleman.  He was extremely busy, took the time to fly here yesterday, play golf with me today and support my efforts.  He is a tremendous gentleman.

Q.  You were able to spend a lot of time after your tee shots talking to the kids, signing stuff?
SUZY WHALEY:  Right.

Q.  You are not going to be able to do that tomorrow?
SUZY WHALEY:  No, no, I won't been able to.  After the round I will do as many as I can do.  That's why I am here.  If I can influence one kid out there to go play golf and give it a try, then I will feel great about it.

Q.  With all of these people out here is it in your nature to just poke it straight down the fairway?
SUZY WHALEY:  No, it's not in my nature at all.  That's what Dr. Coop worries about, that I will be talking to people when it's my turn to hit.  But I'm going to really intently focus tomorrow and do the best I possibly can but at the same time I will enjoy every minute of it.

Q.  Are you happy you got a little bit of golf with the rain?
SUZY WHALEY:  Yes.  I would have liked to play another 9.  I thought I was starting to swing better and feel a little looser, not quite as much nerves coming down the last couple of holes.  It would have been nice if I could get another 9 in.  That's the way it is. 
Fortunately I played this golf course plenty of times so I know what the back nine looks like and I will have to wait until tomorrow.

Q.  Will you get more practice in this afternoon?
SUZY WHALEY:  Yes, I will.  I'm going to hit some balls, putt and chip a little bit.  For me I'm treating it just like any tournament that I play in. I practice a little, play a little, get some lunch and look forward to tomorrow.  It's finally here.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT