SYBASE BIG APPLE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY LINCOLN MERCURY
July 17, 2003
Suzy Whaley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR:  Thanks, Suzy, for joining us.  You finished 2 under today, pretty good round.  Talk about how the round felt.
SUZY WHALEY: I hit the ball really well on Tuesday in a practice round.  I was looking forward to today.  Today was fun, and I hit the ball very well today.  I didn't really make many mistakes, had really good feel in the beginning of the round.  My line was a tad off on my putts, or I felt I could have done gone pretty low today.
MODERATOR:  Questions?
Q.   Was it anything in particular, or was everything pretty solid?
SUZY WHALEY: Everything is just coming together at the right time.  I hit 13 or 14 fairways.  I'm hitting it longer.  My distance control is getting better.  Not perfect, but better.  I left myself in the right place on the greens.  I had a lot of opportunities to make more birdies.  I was fractionally off on some of them.  I was happy with the way I played and really looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.   I know on the first tee, when they introduced you, he said, "Let's wish her well next week."  Were people generally excited about it?
SUZY WHALEY: They always do.  They wish me luck.  "You go girl," I get a lot.  You can never hear that enough when you're out there playing.  For me, the more crowd the better.  I play better with people getting involved and getting into it.  I'm just that kind of player.  I like to interact with the crowd and it gets me up for the shots, and it was helpful to me today to hear that.  Today, I will tell you though is the first day I didn't think about the golf course.  That was good for me.  It was the first day I stayed here, which was a huge accomplishment for me here.  I stayed at this golf course every shot today, which is probably why I played well.

Q.   Have you had a lot of interaction?  Has the other players said much? 
SUZY WHALEY: They ask me when the tournament is, and I tell them next week.  And they say, "ooh."  For me, I'm passed that point, because they're not really  -- here is more nerve-racking for them.  At this point, of course, I'll be nervous.  I'm ready to go.  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm excited about it.  If anything, I have to try to stay patient and stay here.

Q.   I was thinking more of have you heard much?  Do they seem aware of what's going on?
SUZY WHALEY: All of them, yeah, I would say a majority  -- I shouldn't say all, but a majority of them have wished me well, wished me luck, tell me they'll be watching.  Most of the sentiments are, "Suzy, go out there and have fun."  They realize I'm not representing their tour; I'm representing my section.  That's nice. 

Q.   You are clearly in the mix in this tournament.  Will that help you stay here, so to speak?
SUZY WHALEY: Absolutely.  You know, I said yesterday, and I'll say it again, I'm here to be competitive this week.  I can say that now to all of you.  My game is there, and if I can hold up mentally and keep my emotions under control and stick to my game plan, I do feel like I can be competitive here. 

Q.   Talk about your choice of caddies for this week.
SUZY WHALEY: Bucky is a family friend.  He will be on the bag next week as well.  He saved me two or three shots today.  He earned his keep today, and I have known his family since 1989, when I qualified for my tour card.  I traveled with Michelle a little bit, and they are near and dear to my heart.  I wanted somebody who could make me laugh, and if my dad or mom can't be on the bag with me, Bucky is next pick.

Q.   And your family is also here.  I saw your mom and sister.  Tell me what that's been like.
SUZY WHALEY: My sister is the best cheerer ever.  She gets the whole group going which is great.  My mom travels with me extensively when I do play in tournaments.  My mom knows my game probably better than anybody other than my husband.  She can spot things that I can't on the golf course and let me know when I come in.  Even when I play really well, she'll say, this is what I notice, she helps me.  She helps me get better, so it's always nice to have people around that you love.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SUZY WHALEY: It was great.  The March of Dimes is here today selling those pins, and 100 percent of the proceeds go to the March of Dimes Prematurity Campaign.  If people would spend $3, it would be fabulous, and I hope everybody in Hartford has one of those on.  But it's a very important program to me that's close to me.  My sister had twins 16 months ago who were born early, and with the March of Dimes' help, we have extremely healthy toddlers now that are running around everywhere and I'm an aunt.  That means the world to me.  So if I can help anybody have a healthy baby or not have to go through what my sister went through, then I've done a great thing. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SUZY WHALEY: Sure, I made birdie on 3 on 12, 15 and 18.  I made bogey on 5 and 14.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
(Score card done.)

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SUZY WHALEY: I don't know how long I was averaging, but I did pretty well.  If I could hit as well tomorrow, I would be happy.  My guess would be probably 265 plus. 
MODERATOR:  Anything else?  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT