CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2018
Jordan Scarlett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JORDAN SCARLETT: They're a mixture of Missouri and South Carolina.   
 Q.  Why those two?  
JORDAN SCARLETT: Because I feel that Missouri had a really big and good D-line like they do.  They have a couple guys that can move around and are like active, like number 15, a real active guy.  I know number 3 is not playing, but he was an active guy too.   
They have a lot of big guys that can move, and that's how Missouri was.  South Carolina, I feel like the rest of their guys, like their DBs and linebackers are kind of like their linebackers.   
I don't know, their defense, it's kind of hard to put your hand on.  They got some guys that can move fast and some guys are effort guys just making plays.   
 Q.  What's the key to beating defense?  
JORDAN SCARLETT: You got to have no mistakes, execute every play.  They're going to go as hard as they can.  They got guys that they're going to strain to the ball.  It's really going to come down to who strains to the ball harder, is going to fight the extra yard and take the extra step.   
 Q.  Has your game plan changed because they're missing two of their biggest guys on the defensive line?  
JORDAN SCARLETT: No.  I mean, you've still got to run the same thing and do the same thing if they're there or not.   
 Q.  Do you take advantage of (no microphone)?  
JORDAN SCARLETT: Yeah, I guess so, but I feel like Coach Mullen runs his offense, he doesn't really scheme to run away from anyone, in a sense, or run around anyone.   
He just runs straight at them until you prove to him that okay, we can't run his way.  Then he'll probably start saying -- originally, he'll run at anybody, he doesn't care.   
 Q.  With all the different coaches you've had, where does Coach Mullen rank in halftime adjustments?  
JORDAN SCARLETT: He does a really good job at that.  I like the way he approaches the team, whether we're losing or winning, he'll never come in like, bashing up, like screaming, like raging type thing.   
He'll be like come on, guys, we still got this game.  We know we're in it.  He'll just talk about the adjustment itself, make sure everybody's on the same page.  I like the way he executes his play.   
 Q.  Have you gotten any feedback yet from the NFL, as far as grading or things like that?  
JORDAN SCARLETT: No, sir.  I haven't been focused on that.  I was focusing on the season.   
 Q.  When will you make that decision?  What will factor into that?  
JORDAN SCARLETT: Probably after this game, I'll make decisions.  Sit down, talk with my parents and stuff like that.   
 Q.  So you haven't (no microphone) at all?  
JORDAN SCARLETT: No, not to my knowledge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT