U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2020
Charles Osborne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Did you dream of being here when you started the week?
CHARLES OSBORNE:   No.  Kind of like at the beginning of the week if you said I was going to the semis I probably wouldn't believe you.  I'm really happy to be here and really excited, too.  I've got a lot of support from family back home, so it's a lot of fun to be in this position.
Q. How do you think you played today in general to get the win?
CHARLES OSBORNE:   How did I play?
Q. Yeah, how was your game today?
CHARLES OSBORNE:   On the front nine I felt awesome.  I got it to 4-up.  Back nine I had some hiccups all in a row that happened, and then I actually -- it was really nice to close it out and get those wins on 15 and 16.  It was really exciting, so it was a lot of fun.
Q. How do you keep yourself from this driving you crazy overnight as you're thinking about tomorrow?
CHARLES OSBORNE:   It's hard.  You kind of just think about the possibilities and stuff, but just kind of stick to my game.  I know I've got what it takes, just kind of have to do my thing, just let myself do it and stay out of my own way.
Q. We were saying on 18 how you had this big lead that you had amassed over Cameron Sisk.  Is this the type of golf course where -- normally you get a lead, you really want to step down on the pedal and put the opponent away, but on a course like this does that get you into trouble if you try and take that approach?
CHARLES OSBORNE:   Sometimes.  You kind of have to hit the right shots.  Honestly par is a great score out here.  I've actually struggled on 11 the last couple days, but kind of turning that back nine if you can just rattle off three pars in a row, then get to 13, I think that kind of puts you in a good spot.  But it's hard.  You try to press, but it's hard to make birdies when the wind gets going.
Q. How is dad holding up?
CHARLES OSBORNE:   Good.  I think he's all good.  I think his legs are doing all right.  I think he's going to hang in there for a little bit more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT