U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2020
Charles Osborne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How do you feel making the quarterfinals when you consider you shot 77 the first round and maybe that night you were thinking, man, I don't even know if I'm going to make it to match play?
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   Yeah, it's kind of crazy.  Yeah, I was a little disappointed that night and I went and had dinner with my teammate, and we both struggled a little bit.  But it was nice to come out -- actually I felt terrible the next day because I three-putted the next hole.  It was an awful three-putt.  But then I brought it back, and it's crazy to be here now thinking about that.
 Q. Did the 64 settle you down and get you ready for match play?  Obviously it was a great round, but sometimes it's hard to follow a great round.
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   Mm-hmm.
 Q. And you seem to be doing that right now.
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   Yeah, I think kind of just felt like I could play like myself, how I played over at Bandon Trails, and yeah, for sure it continued over, hit some shots and the putter started rolling today.  Yesterday I started a little bit with the putter, but today I felt a lot better.
 Q. 7 & 5 obviously is a significant win in match play.  What did you do well today and what did you think were some of the key holes to the victory?
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   I got off to kind of a hot start.  I just parred No. 1, he happened to bogey, and then I birdied 2 and 3, and then just kind of -- just kept building that lead.  I struck the ball well, just kind of kept it in front of me, and I was just hitting putts where I needed to go, just kind of lagging it up there close.
 Q. Was there any birdie or par that was significant that you said, man, that kept the round going?
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   I felt like -- well, birdie on No. 2 really started it off.  That one was nice.  Kind of just rolled in a 15-footer, and I felt like I know what I'm doing now, so it was really nice.
 Q. You know the legacy of your program and the champions that come out of there.  Has anyone talked to you about that that's from the SMU program or former SMU players?
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   Actually it was kind of funny you say that, Pinehurst last year we were sitting there and I was eating with Mac, and it was just Mac and I last year at Pinehurst, and our coach was saying about every five years an SMU person wins the U.S. Am and we both whiffed the cut.  But now it's this year, so yeah, he talked about it last year for sure.
 Q. Were you old enough to enough Bryson DeChambeau win the '15 Amateur?
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   Honestly I don't remember it that much.  Looking back at the highlights, yeah, it's kind of special.
 Q. What do you think you have to do tomorrow to keep moving on?  Is there a certain thing that you want to tighten up in your game or is there a mental approach you want to make going into tomorrow?
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   I'd just like to keep hitting the ball the way I am and then maybe get those flighted shots a little more control.  A couple got up in the air.
 Q. Because if the wind comes up again tomorrow afternoon, what are some of the adjustments you're having to make with the wind?
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   Just kind of put it back in your stance and hit it low, and then the putts are -- if it's into the wind you have to whack them.
 Q. One of the players said that he hit a putt 10 feet by because the wind blew the putter, not the ball.
 CHARLES OSBORNE:   There's -- on No. 6 I felt that.  I had six feet for bogey actually.  It was an awful hole.  I sat there and I took it back and then all of a sudden it just kind of went through on its own.  It went in, but yeah, it was kind of a weird feeling.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT