MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 10, 2006
Bronson Arroyo
Jason Schmidt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Jason, have you thought about, I saw some of your quotes from yesterday, have you thought about whether you're going to pitch tomorrow after working yesterday?   
 JASON SCHMIDT:  We talked about it a little bit.  There's four or five of us.  We're just going to kind of play it by ear.  I don't know how many pitchers we have, but we have a lot of guys who threw a lot of innings.  It comes down to it, the 9th inning or something, they need a guy, I'll be available.  I'm leaving it up to them.   
  
  Q.  Would tomorrow be a normal throw day for you anyway?   
 JASON SCHMIDT:  Yeah, it would be a sideline day.   
  
  Q.  How many pitches would you normally throw on a sideline day?   
 JASON SCHMIDT:  Depends if I feel good, I'll go forever.  I don't know.  Maybe an inning would probably be the most.   
  
  Q.  Same thing, Bronson?   
 BRONSON ARROYO:  I told them I'm good to pitch tomorrow.  I feel fine.  But I had a late night last night.  So I told him if he could fill nine innings, go ahead and do it.   
 But I feel fine on one day's rest.  This isn't my normal sideline day, wouldn't be.  I usually back it up one day.  But I got beat up in Atlanta and I'm not sore, so I'm fine to pitch.   
  
  Q.  Late night because of travel?   
 BRONSON ARROYO:  No, late night at the bar.  (Laughter.)   
  
  Q.  How much different is life pitching in the National League and not facing AL East lineups every day and other AL lineups every day?   
 BRONSON ARROYO:  From what I've seen this year, it's been a tremendous difference.  Just having the breathing room of the pitcher in the 9-hole, being able to pitch around the 8-hole guy.   
 The lineups just aren't as deep, I don't think, especially compared to the American League East, facing the Orioles and Blue Jays and the Yankees 19 times a year was tough.  I find myself pitching a little bit easier, especially the back end of those lineups.   
  
  Q.  Coming back here to Pittsburgh, how significant is this to pitch in this particular All-Star Game, and just your feelings behind that?   
 JASON SCHMIDT:  Aside from the pitching part, just coming back here and going through the hotel and seeing some old faces of people that I knew back when I played here, it's been a great experience so far.  The people have just been unbelievable.  They treat me still kind of like I'm one of their own, which I really didn't expect.  Coming into the clubhouse among familiar faces and things like that, it makes me more relaxed in an atmosphere when you're around guys you don't really know.   
 Coming to Pittsburgh and pitching in the All-Star Game I'm sure would kind of top it off, I'm sure.   
  
  Q.  What time did you finally get in here today?   
 JASON SCHMIDT:  I probably got in here 1:30, 2:00, somewhere in there.   
  
  Q.  Landing or in the city?   
 JASON SCHMIDT:  In the hotel.   
 I had a late night last night, too.  (Laughter.)   
  
  Q.  What does it mean to be here, your first time?  I know we've talked about this before, but actually doing it and being here, seeing guys like -- I know David Ortiz said you guys had some fun last night.   
 BRONSON ARROYO:  Yeah, it's great to see your old teammates obviously, guys that are here from Boston.   
 It's an honor obviously to be in this uniform no matter how many times you come, but for my first one, it's something special, especially coming to a new team.  I was disappointed obviously in leaving Boston, but being able to come over to the National League for the first time in a while and get off to a great start and have numbers worthy enough to be here is definitely -- I'm enjoying myself and it's great.   
  
  Q.  And you're a former Pirate, too.   
 BRONSON ARROYO:  It's great to come back to this city.  I spent eight years in the Minor Leagues in the system, and like Jason said, all the guys, all the clubbees, being in a town that you're somewhat familiar with the ins and outs of feels good.   
  
  Q.  What would it mean to get in the game tomorrow after what happened last time, and would you be disappointed if you didn't get in?   
 JASON SCHMIDT:  That's a tough question.  I know last time I was here, same situation.  I threw the day before and took myself out of the game before it really started.   
 It was the 9th inning and I'm sitting down there, I want to get in that game.  It was definitely tough.  I did everything I could to get in that game and it didn't happen.   
 Tomorrow, I'm sure it will be the same thing.  If I'm sitting in that bullpen, I'm going to want to get in there.  There are a lot of guys that are going to have to pitch.  But you have to be smart about things, too.  We have a big second half coming up for us and I definitely want to be as healthy as possible, as well.   
  
  Q.  Did the club tell you anything one way or the other?   
 JASON SCHMIDT:  They pretty much left it up to me.  They would probably prefer that I wouldn't pitch, I would assume, but I think for the most part they pretty much left it up to whatever I felt like doing; if I felt comfortable throwing.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT