NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
October 4, 2003
Jason Schmidt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
Q.  At what point were you told you weren't going to start today? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  There wasn't actually -- it was kind of a strange situation all together actually.  You know, I was told after the game it was completely undecided, they would decide this morning.  A few other issues came about, and shortly before I left the park, they decided Jerome was going to pitch.  
 
Q.  Did you tell them you needed another day off, your arm wasn't strong enough?  Did you want to pitch today?  Where did you stand on that? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  Physically, I could have pitched today.  I said, "If the case presents itself, I have to pitch today, you know, I will do that.  It would probably be in everybody's best interest if I didn't.  But if you want me to pitch today, I will do that."  He said, "Sure.  You know what, we'll have Jerome pitch.  We have to win today to get to tomorrow."  Somebody has to pitch today tomorrow regardless.  I could have went either went.  It just happened to work out where I'm going to go tomorrow instead. 
 
Q.  Were you concerned about your arm, the health of your arm, if you did pitch today? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  You know, it's always in the back of your mind a little bit.  But this time of year, you know, you do what's asked of you.  You know, like I said previously in San Francisco, you know, if they want me to pitch today, I would have done it.  Obviously, they didn't think it was a huge need, otherwise I would be out there.  
 
Q.  You said it was in everybody's interest you not pitch today. 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  I said if they wanted me to pitch today, I would be pitching today.  You know, I left that open.  You know, I probably would prefer not to, going on three days' rest.  But like I said, if need be, I would have went today.  Like I said, I'm not the only guy on this team that can pitch.  We got five starters.  We made it this far because of pitching partly.  So if we win today, somebody has to pitch tomorrow.  And whether that was going to be Jerome or me, they decided that last night.  
 
Q.  Do you see any scenario in which you might pitch in relief today? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  I'd say extremely slim.  You know, like I said earlier, somebody's got to pitch tomorrow, so if I relieve today, we end up winning, then who's going to pitch the game tomorrow?  
 
Q.  Is there any way you could pitch an inning today and still start tomorrow? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  I think we're getting a little ahead of ourselves here.  
 
Q.  What is your history of pitching on three days' rest?  Have you pitched that way in the past? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  Not that I can recall.  I pitched in the All-Star Game on short rest.  You know, it was only two innings.  A little different scenario. Like I said, I have no doubt that I can do it.  That's not a question.  
 
Q.  Felipe said that you didn't feel that you were ready.  Is that the conversation you had with him? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  That's not exactly what happened.  I'll just leave it at that.  No, that was not what was said.  
 
Q.  Even though you haven't pitched on the fourth day, physically how do you feel on the fourth day as only paired to the fifth? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  Normally I usually feel pretty good.  You know, a lot of times -- I felt like the other day, I threw 111 pitches, and I felt like I could have pitched again the next day.  But that's not the way it works in this game.  You got to watch out for your health.  You know, like I said before, you know, I could easily have pitched today.  If they wanted me to, I'd have done it.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT