NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
September 30, 2003
Jason Schmidt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Felipe said you use your fast ball and change-up, not too much the breaking ball.  Is that part to protect your arm?  What is your philosophy with the pitching? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  You know, just going out there and throwing a complete game is not really trying to protect your arm.  I've just been doing what I've been doing all year, you know, fast ball change-up and throwing the breaking ball when I feel the need.  The breaking ball was actually there today; I just didn't feel like throwing it too often and didn't want to take any chances when I didn't have to.  I went with my strengths and waited for them to adjust for something different till I changed my philosophy.  
 
Q.  Felipe said early on he knew it was going to be a very close game.  Did you have that same feeling?  Do you adjust your mentality when you have that feeling? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  I definitely knew it was going to be a close game.  I was just hoping it came out on our end.  Facing Beckett, I've watched him over the past couple years.  Outstanding pitcher.  Like I said before, I compared him to Curt Schilling.  He threw every bit like it today.  Luckily for us we came out and got a couple runs, they gave me some room to work with.  You don't want to face that guy twice in a series, and hopefully you won't have to, because he pitched one heck of a ballgame.  
 
Q.  Are you a different pitcher now than you were last post-season? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  I think a few different ways.  I felt like I learned a lot more those last two games of the World Series than I did my whole career as far as preparing for the game, controlling your emotions on the mound, the way you face hitters in certain situations.  I couldn't wait to get back to the post-season this year.  I wanted to pitch one more game in the World Series if I could have, but unfortunately it didn't work out that way.  So, yeah, once spring training started, I was ready to roll this year, and I couldn't wait to get back here again.  
 
Q.  You kept the fast guys at the top of their lineup off base.  How important was that? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  That was a big thing.  I was fortunate enough to keep them off base, because their running game is what everybody talks about.  We knew that going into it.  I just figured keep those two guys off and worry about the other guys later on.  Try to pitch them hard and hopefully they wouldn't get any infield hits or something like that because they got some good speed.  
 
Q.  You've had a number of outstanding performances this year.  How would you rank this one compared to some of the ones you had over the regular season? 
 
JASON SCHMIDT:  Post-season is the only ones that really count in the end anyway.  That's why we play the whole regular season.  It's got to be the top of all of them just because where we're at.  Hopefully we can have a couple more to maybe top it.  Like I said, this is why we're here.  The whole other season doesn't matter as long as we win the games here.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT