NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
September 29, 2003
Jason Schmidt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What do you think might be different this year as opposed to being in the situation last year? 

JASON SCHMIDT:  As far as the team or personal-wise? 

Q.  Either one. 

JASON SCHMIDT:  Team-wise and personal-wise, a lot of us weren't in the situation last year ever before.  It was the first time for us.  We won't have the fear of the unknown.  We have a little bit of experience under our belt.  We know what the crowd is going to be like, we know what the intensity is going to be like.  I don't feel quite as much anxiety going into this.  But tomorrow the adrenaline will definitely kick in.  We've done it one time before, so it makes it a little easier going out there. 

Q.  The Marlins, who are very inexperienced, no playoff experience, are they going to experience things maybe they didn't envision before they came out here or got involved in this? 

JASON SCHMIDT:  I mean, they're going to go through the same thing we went through last year.  They will have a little anxiety on their part, that's natural going into the playoffs.  But we handled it well, and it wasn't quite as bad as a lot of us thought it was going to be.  It's still baseball, you know.  That's all we know.  You go out there, just play the game the only way you know how. 

Q.  As a power pitcher, you experienced some elbow soreness.  How are you able to keep your confidence and get back in shape? 

JASON SCHMIDT:  That time of the year, we had a pretty significant lead.  They gave me 10, 12 days of rest, without putting me on the DL.  I wanted to go out there and pitch.  But they felt at the time it was best to keep me out of the rotation temporarily and have a chance to get it under control.  After I came back, it felt great.  I didn't really have to get any confidence back, it was just getting little aches and pains out there early, and then not having to face that again now. 

Q.  Can you describe the mood or feeling on the team this year versus last year, having clinched early, and winning a hundred games as opposed to being a wildcard?

JASON SCHMIDT:  Yeah, a little bit of time to rest.  Last year we were riding on our adrenaline from the All-Star Break all the way through the World Series.  It's just kind of like one big emotional roller coaster all the way through.  That really carried us more than anything.  This year, we got a little bit of rest.  Guys are healthy, starting to swing the bat really well now.  The pitching's going to be there.  It's going to be a little bit different situation than last year.  It will be interesting to see. 

Q.  You mentioned last year the adrenaline rush about not clinching a playoff spot until the final day.  Any trouble getting that adrenaline rush back? 

JASON SCHMIDT:  This is a veteran team.  A lot of these guys, they've been around for a long time.  I think it's a matter of how you turn it on or turn it off.  They're going to go out there and do what they've been doing all year.  I think adrenaline really takes over, especially when you get in the playoffs.  And last year we just never really had a time to really emotionally rest.  This year, like I said, these guys are veterans, and they're going to go out there and it's going to be there when they need it. 

Q.  A lot of talk about the older managers.  Does this benefit you, their experience?  What is it about the older managers? 

JASON SCHMIDT:  Gosh, I don't know.  I've never had an old manager or young manager in the playoffs.  I don't know any differently, you know.  For Felipe, he's been in baseball long enough, he's seen everything, every situation.  He's been around.  There's a lot to say for having an older manager.  They have a good knowledge for life and for baseball.  He's not going to run into anything he hasn't seen before. 

Q.  The Marlins run quite a bit.  Does that affect you in any way, the way you approach them? 

JASON SCHMIDT:  Every team has a few guys that can run a little bit.  You're aware of that going in.  You still have to pitch your own game.  You can't put your focus on whether a guy is going to steal every pitch or whatever.  You still got to hold runners on.  I'm just going to approach it like I do all my other starts, change whatever needs to be changed at the time. 

Q.  What have you learned about yourself this year, having to go through like the personal loss with your mom?  Can you talk about that?  Last year one of the special things was having your whole family there.  Does it make it bittersweet this year? 

JASON SCHMIDT:  It's definitely going to be different because it's a playoff situation.  I've been dealing with it all year; I'll deal with it again now.  Kind of an emotional year, roller coaster ride for some of us.  But we've all handled it well.  I just want to go out and play baseball.  This is our time to enjoy ourselves and that's what we're doing. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT