BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2011
Ross McGowan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROSS McGOWAN: I played really nicely on the front nine. Hit it through the back on 1, just a couple inches into the fringe, and it's very quick from there, so I made bogey. After that, played great really. Hit lots of greens, lots of fairways and made three birdies I think to turn in a couple under.   
 And I was a little wayward on a couple of holes, so a couple of -- well, one easy tee shot, and one middle of the fairway, but pulled those and made bogey on those holes, but finished strongly and happy to birdie 16, 17 coming in.  
  
  Q. What did you make of changes in tournament conditions?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: I think it really is a fantastic golf course. You have to drive the ball really well. It challenges every part of your game. You have to be able to flight it, hit it high, low, right, left, it challenges everything and you have to have good course management as well. You can't go with driver on every hole.  
  
  Q. Plays to your strengths?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I guess it could say that. My driving hasn't been a strength but Callaway helped me out with a lot of testing this week, so it's improved a lot.   
  
  Q. How close are you getting back to your best?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: When I'm fit and practising every day, I'm right there at the moment. A couple of niggles still today. It's just I've been practising hard the last three or four weeks. The game is in great shape.   
  
  Q. Was it a catalogue of injuries?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: It is, really, just a bit of training and so I guess it all started here last year when I hurt my wrist on the fairway, jarred it in some roots in the fairway, and then yeah, ever since then, I've struggled with it a little bit.   
  
  Q. Has it always been wrist?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: Wrist started and moved up to the shoulder when I was still trying to play on the wrist. And then I think my biomechanics, I upset a few things trying to play while I had the bad wrist and knocked it a little bit all over the place. It's getting back, but the last four events haven't had any trouble at all. Just haven't practised that hard. It's just getting my touch up. It's very close now. Going to pop into the physios this afternoon and have a nice rest.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like it's a period of being put back together?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: I had a couple of breaks this year where I did quite a lot of training and got a lot stronger but the last few days, a couple of niggles come back again. It's just intensifying the practise and training a little harder. Caught me off guard a little.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT