JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2010
Ross McGowan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Ross, give us your update.   
 ROSS McGOWAN: Obviously still struggling with the same injury, struggled all the way around, and probably not a wise move to carry on. Unfortunately it's obviously the last event of The Ryder Cup qualification, and won't be able to make the team now.   
 But I've got a few years left in me, so hopefully I'll make the team in a couple years' time.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: What is the prognosis for your injury?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: There's a trapped nerve still in the shoulder, and not really releasing itself or recovering as I had hoped. Give it a few days' rest and maybe see if we can play the rest of the year.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Were you advised to basically not continue this week?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: Yeah, the physio unit said it's not really improving and just needs rest and ice.   
  
  Q. Is it two or three weeks' rest or will you play next week --  
 ROSS McGOWAN: Next week my physio is going to be there. He's at Barclays this week with Rory, but at least week I can go and see him, and if I can't play the tournament, I'll have a week's treatment I guess. And then after that, Holland, as well, so a chance of getting another week's treatment there and after that go back to Dubai for a few weeks' break.   
  
  Q. So guys out there -- big things ahead.   
 ROSS McGOWAN: Yeah, obviously Miguel is in a great position, and he's playing some lovely golf, and Edoardo, he looks like he's playing great, as well. It's one of those things. I wish them all the best, but unfortunately I'm not going to be there with them.   
  
  Q. If your physio had been here all this week, do you think you would have been fit to play?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: It's a tough one. Hard to say. Wasn't intending on playing the Czech Open last week straight after the PGA, and now here, so maybe just the extra week and then last week put a bit too much pressure on it, a bit too much golf. This is the sixth week in a row from Ireland, so a tough stretch. Must have been one tournament too many.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I took a couple of days off, Monday, Tuesday, and Ibuprofen, and maybe that was a bad move, my stomach wasn't feeling so well after four weeks on Ibuprofen.  
  
  Q. You have a fairly calm disposition, and even now you have a smile on your face, but how bad does it feel inside?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I'm pretty gutted I suppose, I had a great opportunity to make the team this year after having such a good finish at the end of last year. And now all I can do is focus on the future.   
  
  Q. Have you spoken to Monty?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: No, not yet. I'm sure I'll try and find him on my travels back up towards the clubhouse now. I'll obviously offer my apologies, I guess, and wish him all the best in four weeks' time.   
  
  Q. When was it at its worst --  
ROSS McGOWAN: I think the worst was the Bridgestone, three weeks, I could barely move my left shoulder, left arm. It's come a long ways since then. But I don't think it's in good enough condition to carry on this week and expect to be contending on Sunday.   
  
  Q. Still think you may get a pick?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: Hopefully after a few weeks' rest, I might be fit to play but I think it's very unlikely, too many other guys are playing so well.   
  
  Q. Who do you think will get them on Sunday?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: A bit hard to say really. It all depends on Sunday. Simon Dyson is playing very well, and I played with Edoardo today -- too tough for me, so I'll leave it to Colin.   
  
  Q. Will you watch?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I probably will be tuning in on Sunday I think. Have a watch and hopefully I'll be cheering them on in Wales, as well.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 ROSS McGOWAN: Possibly. I think Paul and Pádraig are still ahead of me. If they are picked, then I guess maybe -- it's possible, I'm not sure yet.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Ross, many commiserations again. Thank you for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT