JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 25, 2010
Ross McGowan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Ross, welcome to The Ryder Cup matters. I such suppose start us off by, you know what you have to do to make the team.  
 ROSS McGOWAN: Win, really. Probably the simple answer.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Do you feel in a position to do so?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: Somewhat. Showed signs last week, but my shoulder has given me a bit of grief but it's pretty good.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Have you had it looked at or anything like that?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I had some hand treatment, five weeks on it, and it seems to be improving, a few drugs and it will be okay.   
  
  Q. You last year, the Dubai World Championship is obviously such a huge moment for you, when you looked ahead, where did you expect to be at this stage coming to the last qualifying event of the season?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I was expecting probably to be on the team already I think. I think it's partly my performance hasn't been that great this year, but it's also how well I think everybody else has played this year. Peter has won twice this year, Graeme McDowell has won twice this year, Ross Fisher obviously won the 3 Irish Open; a lot of guys have won events and it just shows how strong The European Team is this year.   
  
  Q. To what extent have you felt building pressure?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I haven't really noticed any pressure. I haven't put any pressure on myself at all. Obviously with the wrist injury earlier in the year from Wentworth onward, it's been a case of trying to play four rounds. I'm happy that I'm playing fairly well, and hopefully this week, we can finish off with a win.   
  
  Q. What persuaded you to play in the Czech Open, especially at the Sunday at the PGA, didn't look like it was going to happen was it?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: It almost twisted The Ryder Cup around a little bit, with Luke falling off the World Points list, almost has to get in on the money. I looked and Czech Open was a course I played last year and thoroughly enjoyed it and thoroughly enjoyed it last week, as well, just a shame I didn't win it.   
  
  Q. If you got on to the team, would you feel that it's the injuries that cost you a place?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: To some extent, yes, but at the end of the day, there's nothing I can really do about it. I've been training a lot harder this year with the physios, and so I've done the work and not much else I could have done but practised and played.   
  
  Q. Who would be your wild cards if you were a captain?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: Good question. Probably I'd pick myself and then I think Alvaro and Edoardo would be great attributes to the team, and be obviously you have the four guys who are playing in the States this week. So I think it's almost impossible to make the correct decision. But especially with Edoardo and Francesco's record in the World Cup last year, I can't see a better pairing really, and then obviously Alvaro is a great character to have in the locker room. Hopefully by then I'll be playing well, too.   
  
  Q. Do you think they made the right decision?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: It's hard to tell. Obviously Luke's played great this year in Europe and America, and Justin has played great and won twice in America, and Paul and Pádraig, they have got experience, as well, and played fairly well most of the year. So it's actually a hard decision and I'm not sure you can make a right decision.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 ROSS McGOWAN: Yeah, I think that would make it a very enjoyable team.   
  
  Q. There is a sense that those supporting the European Tour by being here, some people are saying that, well, you should look at those picks primarily, or do you think that's not the case and you pick the best players?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I think a lot depends on how -- obviously Peter Hanson played so well last week, and Miguel playing nicely, as well. Obviously you look for players in form but in the end of the day, it's the Ryder Cup and an awful lot of pressure and guys like Pádraig and Paul Casey and Luke Donald, Justin Rose, they all have a bit of form and they won't notice the pressure as much as a few of the other guys that it's their first time.   
  
  Q. How many events have you played in that you probably shouldn't have done because of The Ryder Cup situation?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I think the Czech Republic was the only one really. Would have liked to have played France and Loch Lomond. Unfortunately I had to miss those. Other than that, I played the schedule I planned to at the beginning of the year.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 ROSS McGOWAN: No, no, not really. Just played Wentworth and then we weren't sure how bad the wrist was, and I played Madrid and then realised it was probably a little worse than we thought and had a week off. Played the U.S. Open, played really well there, and it's really at The French Open is where I really noticed it wasn't quite as much as we had hoped.   
  
  Q. Have you spoken to Monty?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: No, not at all. I know at the end of the last Ryder Cup, it was the same old -- quick start for The Ryder Cup campaign and obviously a good finish at The Dubai World Championship as well. Not had much contact really, just the odd chat in the locker room and over room and over lunch, but nothing aimed at The Ryder Cup.   
  
  Q. Does it frustrate you that Monty has spoken to others and not you, a form of favoritism?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: No. I think the end of the day, the only way I'm going to make the team is to play my way onto it this week. I'm not sure if he's spoken to any others or not. It's not really my place to say. The end of the day, it's down to me this week and hopefully we can do it.   
  
  Q. Were you among the players kitted out with the uniform, had they had your sizes taken and everything?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I think I did at Wentworth, I had a few sizes taken.   
  
  Q. And would you be totally excited if Monty did give you a wild card? How well do you think you have to play this week to come under consideration do you think?   
 ROSS McGOWAN: I think it would be very tough with my record this year to pick me to be honest. There's only one way I'm going to make the team and that's to win here.   
  
  Q. Is that Ryder Cup pressure you talk about, is that something you'd relish? Do you think you'd respond well?  
 ROSS McGOWAN: I think so. I've got a good record in match play, won the Amateur a few years ago and beat Steve Stricker earlier in the year at the Match Play. So I see myself as a good match-play player, and Celtic Manor is a course I've liked since we played there three years ago, and I think I would play well under the pressure.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Ross, we wish you well with your quest.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT