NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 8, 2003
Alex Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q..  Alex, congratulations on your two home runs.  I want to know what you thought of Sammy's, though?

ALEX GONZALEZ: Thank you.  They were a lot further than the ones I hit.  Two of mine probably equaled the one of his.  He got us going.  It was a big time for him to come through.  And he's been doing it for the past month.  He's really been hitting in clutch situations.  We need him for continuing this postseason and staying hot.

Q..  What about your power:  four home runs in three straight postseason games?  Is that surprising or how do you feel about that?

ALEX GONZALEZ: Well, I've always kind of been a streaky hitter, when it comes to hit for power.  When I go up there, by no means am I trying to hit home runs.  I'm trying to get a good pitch and I tend to take out there a certain swing.  And if I can make contact, then that's the result.

Q..  Can you talk about the collective team hitting, not only the last two days, but the last game of the Atlanta series, you guys have blossomed, is it contagious?

ALEX GONZALEZ: I think it started in the last month of the season, where everybody started gelling during that drive to win the Central title.  And our line-up really started clicking and falling into the right pieces.  You've got Kenny Lofton in the lead off spot, that was getting on base and making things happen for the middle of the line-up.

Q..  You said you were dissatisfied with your batting average during the season being in the .220's, a disappointment.  Is your playoff run right now completely making up for that?

ALEX GONZALEZ: I think during the season I tend to look at what I was doing to help the ballclub win, instead of looking at average and taking my defense out there and helping the ballclub win with my glove.  And if I can get big hits and help the team win ballgames, that's the most important thing, especially hitting in the seven-hole, you try to drive in as many runs as you can.

Q..  What's the Marlins' approach been pitching to you?

ALEX GONZALEZ: Well, they're power pitchers, so they tend to come at you and you just have to stay ready as a hitter.  They've got some hard throwers out there, throwing in the mid 90's, which is no walk in the park when you go up to the play.  So you just have to make the adjustments as they do.

Q..  There were thousands of fans outside tonight on Waveland, can you comment on that?

ALEX GONZALEZ: I didn't see the fans out there, but I would imagine the way this whole postseason has been and the following, it's probably pretty exciting out there, even out in the streets around Wrigley Field.

Q..  Have you ever hit three home runs in a game before, and were you disappointed you didn't get a chance?

ALEX GONZALEZ: I've never hit three home runs in a game, and I wasn't disappointed, because I do understand the fact that Ramon Martinez has to get his at-bats, and it's important for later on that he stays fresh and his timing doesn't get knocked off.  I understand -- I was
definitely thinking about the team when that happened. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT