HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 18, 2013
Lee Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     Talk about your round. 
LEE WILLIAMS:   I made a pretty good eagle putt on number 4, which got me kind of rolling, and after that just was hitting it pretty good.

Q.   You know you have to score, you get it rolling and then you get to a couple of holes you probably could have taken advantage of, 15 and 16, how hard is it to keep that momentum going?
LEE WILLIAMS:   Once you get into a rhythm out here you can definitely make a lot of birdies.   And unfortunately, I hit a good putt on 15 and it didn't go in. 
And then 16 was just a tough par-5 to hit in two.   And if you miss the green, then you're going to leave yourself a difficult up-and-down.   And that's what I did.   I missed the green going for it in two and had a tough sand shot.   But ended up making par.   But yeah, going into this week with no wind you got to go low.

Q.   Part of the sort of fraternity within a fraternity, the guys that graduated, what Russell did last week, what guys were doing yesterday, how much does that inspire your play?
LEE WILLIAMS:   It always helps, but at the same time, you know, I think everyone out here is capable of competing and winning.
And I think everyone knows that the guys coming off the Web.com Tour, from history, they know that they're competitive.   And it's always good to see Russell and guys that I'm friends with have good weeks.   And it also helps your confidence as well, but at the end of the day I think that everyone out here is a great player and can win. 

Q.   Tell me how you feel about your position here halfway through.   You're three shots off the lead right now.   Do you feel pretty good going into the weekend?
LEE WILLIAMS:   Yeah, obviously it's going to come down to who makes the most putts and you need to be in the fairway out here, too, so that you can give your self good chances with your short irons.   But at the end of the day it's all about the putts. 

Q.   What's been working for you so far?
LEE WILLIAMS:   I putted well, and my short game overall has been really good.   I could drive it a little better.   My short irons have been pretty good. 
But I would say overall my short game, especially yesterday, I did not play very good yesterday, and just scored really well for the places I was leaving myself.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT