NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 29, 2000
Susie Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SUSIE REDMAN:   The double was fun.  I started off on 10.  I birdied 10.  I hit  -- it was a long day out there today.  Playing in a twosome, I'm going to tell you, we actually had a lot of practice swings between  -- waiting between every single shot.  I hit 6-iron up to about 24 feet and made that putt.  Then really on 18 was a huge key for me.  I drove it in the bunker.  I think it was the only fairway I missed on the front side.  I wedged it out and hit a poor sand wedge up there and just drained a bomb.  I mean it was a long way.  It was, I would say, 40 feet.  It might have been longer than that.  It was just long, up the hill.  Then I birdied the par  5 on 6.  I just hit it in the rough and chipped it up there and made about a 12-footer.   Then 9, I hit it in the bunker and I think  -- I tried  -- I saw the leaderboard and knew I was at 7, and just had this feeling that I was going to get it up-and-down and I got a little too cute and I left it in the bunker.  Tried to just barely get it out and let it run  -- release to the hole, and I think the sand was a little wet and I just really didn't accelerate through, and then I got to do it again, and then I knocked it to about 15 feet and missed it. 

Q.  When you made the putt on 6, it was like finally you made one.  You hit a lot of iron shots and gave yourself a lot of chances, good solid round?

SUSIE REDMAN:   I felt like I hit a few shots in there about 12 feet to 15 feet on a lot of holes.  I felt like that by 6, you know it was about time.  I mean, it finally  -- the putt wasn't scared of the hole; it dropped.  You know, I'm really looking forward to the next two days.  The golf course is in great shape.  The weather was perfect today.  A lot of great scores, and, you know, I'm ready to go out there and fire one of those great scores.  I was 2-under today.  But to play this golf course and win, you need four really great scores or four great days.  So, hopefully tomorrow the putts will fall in. 

Q.  Were you tired at all going into the last hole?  Was there any other physical problems? 

SUSIE REDMAN:   No.  Not at all.  Actually, I hit a really good shot.  I drove it in the perfect spot, and it was into the wind; I hit 5-iron.  I was probably the only  -- I was going right at it and I was probably just two yards off the pin.  Hit a really good, solid shot, I thought and it just hit like the fringe and kicked into the bunker.  I wasn't tired.  I mean, I think  -- the nice thing, it actually made me feel more relaxed, kind of waiting, than maybe trying to hurry, because the twosomes, sometimes, you feel like the pace of play is a little bit quicker and you just hit and go and hit and go.  But no, I wasn't tired.  I wish I could blame it on that.  The only drawback to No.  9 was you could not see the pin placement because of the shadow, and there were people behind, and I had just basically picked out maybe a tree in the background where the pin was.  That would be the only thing that I had thought before I hit the shot was I couldn't really see the pin.  It was white and you couldn't see the pin placement, but that was it.

Q.  The first hole when you got the birdie, did you feel everything was going for you there?  Did you figure you were going to give everybody a run for their money today? 

SUSIE REDMAN:   Well, I think  -- you know I've been out here so long, I think you realize it's 18 holes.  But I always go out there with  -- hoping to have a four- or five- or six-hole stretch where you can build momentum.  You might birdie three or four holes out of the five or six, and I really didn't have that, because I only had two birdies today.  I birdied one on the front and one on the back and that's it.  So it was just kind of boring golf today.  It was really boring golf.  There was really nothing exciting about it.  I didn't really do too many mistakes except for the last hole when I did not get it out of the bunker.  But pretty much I was  -- you know, I hit it where I aimed it, which is always good.  So that's good.  At least tomorrow, I know if I aim it there, it's going to go  -- even the tree, it's going up the tree.  My target was fine.  I was hitting my targets good. 

Q.  When pace of play is that slow, you say you're taking a lot of practice swings, what are you thinking?  What are you doing to get through that?  Are you just trying to  --

SUSIE REDMAN:   You know, I do a lot of things, because I just don't want to not be relaxed.  And anybody that follows me, I probably, you know, do a lot of things that normally a lot of golfers don't do, but it's just because  -- you know, you're playing so slow.  And I finds that I just want my muscles to be slow and relaxed and I don't want to tighten up.  You don't want to wait, six, seven, eight minutes without taking a swing, take one practice swing and then hit it, because really, you've just stood there and waited, your back or whatever  -- if anybody has back trouble.  You're just kind of tight and there's no rhythm.  So I'm just kind of staying in the rhythm with a swinging motion, and maybe it's more calming for me to do that, but I noticed that Barb was doing the same thing.  I think it's just a matter of passing the time.  We told jokes out there; we talked to each other.  I talked to the gallery and constantly it was just trying to make the time go a little quicker, just so that you could go ahead and be ready for your next shot.  So when I wasn't talking to people, then I was taking practice swings.  Made the time go by quicker. 

Q.  Is there any extra pressure because you've been on the Tour for so long without getting that No. 1 finish, without your win? 

SUSIE REDMAN:   No. 

Q.  Any time you get closer towards a win like this, does it make it more anxious or any other  -- does it affect you in any other way? 

SUSIE REDMAN:   Not a bit.  I love it.   I have people that come watch me because they enjoy watching me play and I really like to play for them.  I like to play competitively.  A win would be awesome.  I mean, I've love to feel it.   Because even today on the first hole, I had a little nerves.  And after 15 years, I still have, you know, butterflies or whatever, nerves, which is great, because that's how you can keep playing for so long.  You know, I don't  -- the pressure  -- the only pressure I have is I'd like to play in my city, Mobile, Alabama for the Tournament of Champions, but that pressure is a good kind of pressure, because I know if I would win, I would have a tremendous amount of people on the gallery.  That would be exciting, because like I said, I enjoy people watching me, and I have not performed well enough to get a gallery  -- so the few little people that come out and watch me, I enjoy that.  I enjoy them coming out.  That's about it.  There was quite a bit, wasn't there?  I get quite a bit  -- they keep coming.  They are from all over, really.  Friends from Indiana, I have probably just thinking about it, probably 12.  And from Chicago, Indiana, Springfield, Illinois, these people just come out and watch me and they have been doing it for years.  The one lady, she said -- (inaudible) -- I'm going to start a Susie Redman Fan Club so all my friends  -- and they are all my friends now.  That's the wonderful thing about playing the LPGA TOUR is you get a wonderful opportunity to meet so many different people, and then once they follow you, they are hooked, and they just keep coming back and that's the fun part. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT