NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 28, 2000
Susie Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SUSIE REDMAN: On No. 5, I birdied and I hit 8-iron, and I had -- I had probably about
18 feet and that was a good putt. Then I went to No. 6 and I hit driver, 3-wood and had
probably about 21 feet and I knocked it in for eagle. It was just off the green. So that
got me started. And then No. 9, I hit a good shot. I hit it up there -- I hit 6-iron and
had probably about five feet and knocked that one in. On 14, I hit 8-iron. I had probably
about -- probably about 15 to 18 feet and made that one, just barely. It just hit the back
right door. Then on 15, I hit 6-iron in and I probably had 18, 20 feet. I made that one.
And then 17, I 3-putted. And 18, I hit a really good shot and made par. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

SUSIE REDMAN: Yeah, I just picked it up. I didn't really struggle on my putting. I
don't know what I am in stats, but it's not very good, I can guarantee you. It's got to be
over 100 on the stats. But really struggled on -- yeah, I think it was Wednesday -- maybe
it was Tuesday afternoon, but I just went over to the bag and said, "Okay, I'll just
try this one." And I just decided it just looked good. It's just an Odyssey. I've
been putting with an Odyssey, just a mallet. And I've been having a lot of putts that I've
been stroking it well, but it didn't seem like I was making any and I went to this
TriForce III, (phonetic) I think it is; more of a blade look. So it was a good switch. But
that's kind of like me; I seem to switch. I think I've switched tons of putters this year,
but this was a good switch. It was kind of cold this morning when we got started. I made,
like on 1 and 2 -- oh, I made two really good saves on 1 and 2. And so it was colder this
morning, and, you know, the ball was just hitting and sticking. So, you know, I was just
kind of hoping -- I did. I just stayed real patient and kind of waited until it got a
little bit warmer and the wind kind of picked up, and I was happy it was a little bit
warmer and the wind didn't seem to bother me because it seemed like we've been playing in
a lot of windy conditions, really the last several weeks. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

SUSIE REDMAN: Yeah, well, this is kind of a -- this is like my 15th year on TOUR. I've
been playing forever. We're having the big Tournament of Champions in my hometown. So I
don't know . Hopefully, I'll keep doing what I'm doing, and, you know, that would be like
a dream come true, because I could go, "Okay, mom, I'll be up here." That is my
hometown. I'll be playing in both the Pro-Ams there on Monday and Wednesday. And I told
them that, boy, I'd sure like to play Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. They asked me to
do the dinner on Tuesday night. So I'm going to be there Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. It
would be nice if I could just kind of finish off the week. I guess that's about it. Just
try and do what I do every day: Get up, have breakfast, iron my clothes, come out and warm
up and hopefully it will be a good day and make some putts. But that was my key today.
When I got started, I think I told several of the people that came out to watch me play, I
feel pretty good. I'd just like to see that ball roll in the cup. 

Q. Could you talk about your eagle putt? Did you get a lot of break or was it from the
fringe?

SUSIE REDMAN: It did. It was just off the fringe. Like I said it was probably about 21
feet, up the little hill. I knew it was right-to-left. Actually I played more break than I
thought, and I actually thought I missed it on the high side and just kept turning more
than I thought. So, it really got my started, because that jumped me to 3-under, and I
think kind of that's golf, isn't it? I've noticed in some of my rounds that momentum seems
to be the difference of kind of settling in and just staying a little bit more calmer and
a little more focused, and so that kind of helped build a little momentum; and then 9. So
it was a good start. Felt really good when I got to that par 5. You said that you saw it
and it almost went in for eagle. And I just missed that putt, I thought, well, I could go
to 7-under there. I mean, it could have gone either way. But I thought overall -- I hit 13
greens, and that's been kind of standard for me lately. Pretty average. I think out here,
the wind was swirling a few times. And you'll see a lot of players who will take a club
and maybe doubt themselves at the last minute because the wind just turned. Into the wind
on 17 off that drive, it was dead in. And I had 138 to the flag, and I figured it was
going to play 150, so I tried knocking down a 6-iron. And I knocked it down, but the wind
took it a little bit and I probably had -- that was really -- I had about 30 feet just
pin-high left. But that's when it got tough because we haven't really had that kind of
wind. It's been kind of swirly, but that's been dead on. If it keeps up today like it is,
I think it's really going to play hard, just because of -- the holes going into the wind,
there's some really good tough par 4s out here, and I think the last thing you want is 190
into them or 180. You want to be able to not work so hard on them. 

Q. You grew up in Mobile? 

SUSIE REDMAN: Yes. I went to high school there and grew up there. 

Q. So you were born in Salem. So how long can we claim you for, how many years? 

SUSIE REDMAN: Well, actually my dad was race raised in Salem and so was my mother. I
actually never lived in Ohio. I was raised in Mobile. 

Q. It says you were born in Salem?

SUSIE REDMAN: I was. Born in Salem. But both my parents are from Ohio and I was raised
in Mobile. I have three children that we live across the bay. 

Q. I heard that you were maybe a little bit ahead of your time, and a lot of people are
doing it now, but you came right out of high school and played professional golf. Talk a
little bit about that journey and trying to do it the way you did it? 

SUSIE REDMAN: I actually had a very good amateur career and junior career. I'm glad
that I did what I did now, because I think that at the time, you know, it's very demanding
and challenging now for an 18 -, 19- or 20-year-old. But I think because of all of the
Junior tournaments and whatever -- well, I had a lot of junior tournaments. I think the
mindset is a little bit different. More television. They are just coming out mentally
stronger or tougher. I came -- the day I came out here, Pat Bradley, JoAnne Carner, Nancy
Lopez, Kathy Whitworth, all of the legends were playing, and they were playing great. You
know, I had this fear. I mean, this is legendary to me, and I remember that if they got on
the tee and I was on the tee: "Just go ahead and play through." I had a lot of
respect, and so, you know, I think in that respect, you know, I had to, you know, it's
taken me a longer time to grow up -- everybody grows up at a different pace, but do you
understand, I was 18 and I was an 18-year-old. And I think a lot of these 18-year-olds now
-- I mean, looking at the 14-year-olds now, looking at their manners and confidence and
the way they handle themselves, they surpass me when I was 18 because they really have the
ability to trust themselves. Just different mindsets. 

Q. Had you been able to play the last 15 years without having to take breaks for
childbirth, do you think you would have had that victory by now?

SUSIE REDMAN: I don't think so. Because I always looked at: I was never going to choose
between motherhood and playing professional golf. I say that I'm already a winner. I can
do both. And I think that shows a lot of -- it's a wonderful game and a wonderful sport
that, you know, a woman can not have to choose one career or the other. And that's evident
in Juli Inkster and Nancy Lopez being winners and raising a family. So I think that's
pretty great in itself for a woman, in my standpoint and my feeling. No, you know, I don't
know, I've gained 30 pounds sometimes; and being pregnant your balance isn't -- but I
never look at it that way, no. I always think that I'm winning already. I mean, my last
son had cancer. To me, I think -- and Garrett (phonetic) will tell you, I kind of have
this renewed sense of happiness in terms of being very fortunate and very lucky to be
completing and playing. And he's doing great. He's going to be six. He's wonderful. 

Q. And when did he have the cancer? How old was he?

SUSIE REDMAN: He was four months old. He had neuroblastoma. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

SUSIE REDMAN: I did. Right after that. That year I played and don't know of that for
sure, but I finished second in the Dinah Shore and then was just a couple weeks -- I think
I made like 10 out of 13 cuts and was up to 128,000 after 10 tournaments. And once they
discovered cancer, I had to quit to take care of him. I felt like that year I was just on
the brink of feeling like I was ready, maybe. It's hard to say, but that's by far the best
start I had ever had in my career at that point. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

SUSIE REDMAN: And that's a big thing. Garrett said that like now, like this whole year,
I carry a St. Jude's Children Research Hospital bag, and I do it out of my heart, just
because they saved my son's life. It's really a wonderful story. I think that playing in
all of the LPGA tournaments I do, I have a lot of people -- I recently just had my caddy
say that his daughter went to St. Jude. I get a lot of people that come up to me saying
that they have friend or family that have gone to St. Jude. When you ask me that question,
do I think I'd win, I do think that having children and my experience with St. Jude, I
really did -- I've been able to share my testimony with a lot of families or people that I
don't know, and to me, that seems more important, I mean for me, until I can win. That's
just very positive and doing what I'm doing and so -- I mean, winning would be like icing
on the cake. 

Q. I take it you're probably a big believer in destiny. With the Tournament of
Champions being in Mobile, is there any sense of destiny right now this week? 

SUSIE REDMAN: It's hard to say. Garrett followed me through the years, and we just, you
know, we keep going forward. I don't know, destiny, gee, we have three more days, and
believe me, I've been out here long enough to know how difficult 54 more holes are. But,
you know, I'll dream about it. That's all I can do. 

Q. Are they with you? 

SUSIE REDMAN: No. They are in school. But they will be watching Golf Channel. 

Q. And next year when you defend, they can come up because the tournament will be in
August. 

SUSIE REDMAN: We'll see. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT