ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 18, 2018
Rumana Ahmed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
South Africa - 109/9, Bangladesh - 79/5   
 Q.  A disappointing end to the tournament for Bangladesh.  You bowled nicely throughout the course of it.  Is that something, a positive you can take to the next competition you're playing in?  
RUMANA AHMED: Actually, you're right.  This tournament itself, it's a big opportunity for us, World Cup, good platform for us.  But unfortunately this tournament, we lost every match.  But we still are real happy because our one side is more improving.  Our bowling side is quite good, but we need to improve our batting side also.   
 Q.  Why is there such a big disconnect between your bowling performances, which are right up there, you kept every side you played to a reasonable total, and your batting seems to be fairly behind the mark at the moment?  
RUMANA AHMED: Actually, our practise was good and last, previous we played lots of matches, and we had good preparation, but this is World Cup and here everything is different and our batters, not bad, but this time their confidence a little bit down.   
 Q.  So that means batting, when you return home, will be the major focus going forward?  The main focus for you going forward will be improving your batting?  
RUMANA AHMED: Yeah, last time -- sorry, actually here every match is finished.  So our next target was our batting.  So we need to improve.  So when we go back home, then we'll try our best batting side.   
 Q.  How special was 2018 for Bangladesh, winning the Asia Cup, beating India twice, beating Pakistan?  Overall, when you look back it's a very positive year for Bangladesh in cricket.  
RUMANA AHMED: Yeah, everything was a positive but this time.  Unfortunately, we lost every match.  But we hope next time we'll be fine.   
 Q.  Do you think you have the bowling that can be on the world stage?  You take the wickets every time you play.  You must feel that's at least one thing you can take from this tournament?  
RUMANA AHMED: Actually, I tried my best.  Actually I am a well-rounded bowler.  I have to play both sides, but this time our bowling was good, but we need to improve for both sides.   
 Q.  And you talk about the success this year, the Asia Cup championships, as you said, and the winning the qualifiers in Holland.  I know you've come into this tournament with very high hopes.  One of the things that was said at the start of the tournament, you don't want to have to qualify; again, you want to get straight into the top.  Is that the aim now to push your way all the way up to the top four perhaps?  To try and build over the next few years to get into the top four?  
RUMANA AHMED: Yeah, definitely.  Because our target is big.  We qualified next time.   
 Q.  And you personally, your game, you said you bat and bowl.  So you're a key member of the team.  Tonight you did a pretty good job with the ball.  What was it like out there, you're just coming after West Indies played England and 10,000 spectators.  What was it like watching that atmosphere and getting a taste of it?  
RUMANA AHMED: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was it like in front of the big crowds here in the Caribbean?  
RUMANA AHMED: Yeah.   
 Q.  The question was what was it like playing in front of these fans?  
RUMANA AHMED: Obviously there are lots of crowd is here.  And they supported cricket and it's great and good.   
 Q.  What does it mean for women's cricket that large numbers of fans are coming?  What would you say it means for women's cricket that so many fans have come to watch your matches?  
RUMANA AHMED: Yeah, I want it to continue to help grow the game.   
 Q.  Overall, what would you take away from this tournament that you think you can use going forward to the next tournament and even down the road?  
RUMANA AHMED: From this tournament, we learned lots of good things.  We'll try our best next.   
 Q.  And you played against two of the semifinalists, England and West Indies.  What was the best team you played against here?  
RUMANA AHMED: This time, my observation is India looking good.  They are very positive.  But all teams, four teams is very good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT