NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 17, 1999
Robin Ventura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby just said he didn't even know the ball was going over the fence. What happened
with you, did you see it go over, did you just know it was in the outfield or what?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: No. I saw it go over and then I just ran to first. I saw Todd Pratt
running back at me. I don't know, as long as I touched first, we won. So that's fine with
me. 
 
Q. Do you have any desire to run the bases?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Maybe tonight when you guys go home, I might do it. 
 
Q. Robin, Valentine was just saying you have a pretty distressed left knee. What's
wrong with the knee, and are you going to need surgery on it?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: I wouldn't say it's 100 percent, but again, you just do what you can do.
We worry about the rest when that happens. We haven't really said what it is, and nobody's
telling me I have to have anything. But as long as I can still play and this team wants me
to go out there, I'll go out there. 
 
Q. Are you wearing a brace on it?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Yeah. 
 
Q. Robin, have you ever been involved in another game that was anything close to that?
What was the feeling like in the dugout, in the bottom of the 15th, if you would go
through that?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: I've been in a game that's probably that long, but I don't think one of
the magnitude that you go home, if you lose. So I think Shawon's at-bat really did a lot.
He fouled off a ton of pitches, and then got a base hit and then Matty went up there and
had a good at-bat. I think the guys feed off of that. It was a great job by them. 
 
Q. Robin, can you talk about the at-bat? He had been a little wild. What was your
mindset going into that?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Well, I think it's different when the bases are loaded and the guy --
he's already walked a guy. He can't really fool around and throw a bunch of pitches in the
dirt. So I'm just trying to get a ball in the air so the guy can score. 
 
Q. Just talk again, Robin, about the team that you've talked about all year. Backs are
against the wall; consistently come out fighting like you did today. Can you talk about
the character of the team?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: It's a team that doesn't -- that obviously doesn't quit. I think we've
been in quite a few situations like this during the course of the year, and we don't
really have a reason for it. It just seems like this team responds to dire situations. We
just play another day. It seems like we've been saying that for about a month and a half
now, but it's the truth. We can't lose another game. We're happy to just be playing
another game. 
 
Q. Can you pinpoint the motivation to succeed in a game like this? Is it the team, the
city, the manager, is it your personal honor?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Obviously, the people you play with, the people that come out here and
sit through rain for that long. It's the organization. There's a lot of reasons. And pride
and everything else. I think everybody that plays on this team has a lot of pride, and
it's a fun group to play with. 
 
Q. Robin, you were 0-for-16 before you got a hit today. You were getting anxious to
break out? How were you coping with it?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: You want to get a hit, first of all, but I think it's one of those
things where if you try to swing harder and do things harder, you end up complicating
things and overswinging; you're just anxious to get a hit. And I think finally there it
just -- I don't know what it was, it just seemed like my swing got a little smoother, and
hopefully, that continues. 
 
Q. Robin, even though you guys have great comeback character, was there the slightest
self-doubt when you go down 3-2, saying it doesn't look good?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Especially as many innings that nobody scored, it doesn't look good. But
strange stuff has been happening this year. I think everybody just was going to see what
happens. I don't think you can sit there and guarantee that you're going to win that game
when you go down. But everybody is going to go down swinging, and we did. 
 
Q. This team is now halfway to an unprecedented comeback. Is there a sense maybe now of
destiny, especially after a game like this?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Well, I think after we lost the game the first night here, I think
everybody basically felt you can't win four games in one night. So last night was
obviously a big win. And the comeback, we're just kind of scratching and clawing. But you
can't win four games and you can't win two games in one night. You just come out and win
the next game, and hopefully, you can scratch something out. 
 
Q. What was the mood in the dugout when you guys came back in the bottom of the 15th,
knowing you only had three outs left in the season, were you confident you could pull it
out?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: You know, I don't think you can just say there was a feeling you're just
going to do it. But I think with Shawon's at-bat, that's just one of those things that you
get a good feeling when guys put on an at-bat like that, leading off an inning and getting
on. And Matty had the same kind of good at-bat and so did Todd. So when guys do that, you
sense that we might have a chance. 
 
Q. Robin, ever in your life have you ever hit a home run and not circled the bases?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Not that I can remember. 
 
Q. Was there any feedback from the bench that had you looking for a certain pitch, a
certain weakness, in McGlinchy?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: I think after Todd's at-bat, it obviously puts them in a tougher
situation having just walked the tying run. Now you only need a sacrifice fly to win the
game. I was just looking for a pitch I could just get in the air, and fortunately, it
happened. 
 
Q. Robin, is this what you envisioned when you made the determination to sign the
free-agent contract here with the Mets?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: I rather envisioned us being up three games. But we're just taking
anything we can. It's been fun to go through all this. And again, we're just playing
another day, and I guess we like it that way. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT