NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 11, 1999
Robin Ventura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Robin, it's been said a lot, but talk about the lefties and what kind of problem
they pose for you and the staff?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: You know, I think they're different. I think Tom is more of a control
pitcher. But he doesn't really give you a lot of the plate to work with. I think either
way, whichever way he's going, because he's a control pitcher and precise with what he's
doing; so he doesn't really give you a pitch right over the middle of the plate. He's able
to stay on each corner, and poses obviously a lot of difficulty, picking a side or staying
with it. I think John's more just a power pitcher. He's just going to air it out. And I
think he throws hard enough and good enough on a slider that he's tough on any lefty, not
just certain ones. And even Randy, it's just that simple.  
 
Q. What about Rocker?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: He's not just tough on lefties, he's equally tough on righties. 
 
Q. Did you want the Braves, or in your head were you saying, "Oh, anybody but the
Braves"?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: I don't think it really matters, really. I don't think anybody cared all
that much. I think everybody was still focused on Arizona and just winning those games. I
think once you start looking ahead at other matchups, you lose focus on who you're playing
and what's going on at that moment. And even after we won on Saturday, I don't think
anybody wished anything else. You're glad with whoever you're playing. 
 
Q. Is there any residual from the way they've dealt with this team for two years?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Maybe the guys that have been around that long that were here last year,
maybe, I don't know. They're just an exceptional team. I think the games that we had
against them, most of them were fairly good games. They were able to win them. I think
nine of them or whatever. And that's something that we're just going to have to hope that
we hit better, and hit better when there's men in scoring position. 
 
Q. Do you have any dislike for them at all? 
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: No, they're a very good team. 
 
Q. The term "team of destiny" or maybe there's something special going on,
was brought up a few times. Does it seem that way to you, that there's something special
going on?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: We go through spurts where we play very well. We take advantage of
breaks. And I think when we had our losing streaks this year, we weren't able to do that.
After we had lost 8 in a row earlier in the year, we were able to take advantage of the
situations that we were given. And since losing the 7th straight, we were able to do the
same thing since then. So hopefully that continues. But I think that's just the way we win
games all during the year. I don't think it's just right now that we've had odd situations
occur. 
 
Q. Steve talked about the impact Cookie has in terms of: How is having him going to
affect the team, not having him for the first five games?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Obviously, it's different. I think anytime -- if the infielders that
rely on him and him being at third base every day, you're used to the -- just his timing
of giving you signs and the way you communicate, you know what he's asking for. So it's
going to be a little bit different to understand what the other coaches are asking you to
do, because I think Cookie becomes comfortable with us, and it doesn't take quite as long
to explain what you want when you've done it that long. 
 
Q. In '94, I guess your team -- you probably felt that you got to the World Series or
whatever, how does it feel now to finally get a chance to be there again, and is there
anything you look back on that time that's kind of sad in your heart about what happened
in that year?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: No, I don't think you look back and think anything, because it just
didn't happen, and nobody got a chance. Nobody is guaranteed anything. For now, it's just
enjoyable to get back to the playoffs and play with these guys. It's a lot of fun playing
with this team, and it's just nice to be in the playoffs. 
 
Q. How does Mike's presence in the line-up affect you, batting behind him?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Obviously, I think his presence in the line-up is different than anybody
else because of his power and average and everything he brings to the line-up. So it's
obviously important that we have him in the line-up. I don't think it affects me all that
much. I think it impacts our line-up; makes our line-up a lot stronger, just the depth of
it. And obviously, he was an important part of the line-up when they put this team
together. Having him in there is equally as important. 
 
Q. This year, I think you hit .140 against the Braves or something. It's obviously a
tough matchup. Is that because of what they've got going or the combination of coming
over?
 
 ROBIN VENTURA: Maybe a lot of both. It doesn't guarantee that I'm going to make an out
every time I go up there. That was just the way it was and I've had other spurts where I
haven't hit very well against certain teams. But if I feel like I'm not going to get a
hit, then I wouldn't be playing. It's just the way it is, and hopefully it will change. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT