BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
John Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  John, maiden voyage around this place.  Nice playing today.  
JOHN PETERSON: Yeah, thank you.  We were at the beach Friday through Monday.  Got the call that I would probably be in on Monday.  Left all my clubs and everything in Fort Worth.  Didn't even bring them to the breach.   
So my mom was nice enough to fly up here Monday night with all my stuff.  Bags were still in the travel bags from Greenbrier.  Had a fun few days in Wilmington.  But, yeah, it was nice to get off to a good start today.   
 Q.  So no expectations?  What was the M.O. today?  
JOHN PETERSON: I mean, I need to win or finish second for it to matter at all.  You know, I might as well just freewheel it out there.   
 Q.  The golf course is freewheelable, isn't it?  The greens are pretty receptive and you can go at flag sticks.  Put the ball in the fairway you got some opportunities.  
JOHN PETERSON: Yeah, it's a tricky little place.  I mean, looks pretty simple on the scorecard, and then you get over there and -- what hole was that?  No. 3, little par-4 down the hill.  Practice round it was just a hybrid and 8-iron.   
This morning I hit the same hybrid and it went through into the rough on a downslope and then hit it over the green.  It can kind of catch up with you a little bit if you fall asleep on a shot or two.   
Doesn't look like a hard course just looking at the scorecard and the picture or whatever research you want to do, but you get out there and get in the wrong spot, you can make a bad number.   
 Q.  When you play a golf course the first time - no one has gotten a body of work here - and you play the practice rounds and the pro-am.  Pins are in the middle of the greens and you go, Wait a minute.  There is actually green over there that I couldn't see from the fairway?  They find corners, don't they?  
JOHN PETERSON: 17 was a good example of that.  I mean, kind of just walked by 17.  It was a nothing par-5.  They put the flag over there and it looked like it was in the water from the fairway.   
I didn't even know there was green over there.  We just played safe to it.  I mean, there was really no way around it.   
But, yeah, no, we didn't practice at all hitting over there.   
 Q.  You had no expectations getting in here.  Is it easier to come in like that and not be nervous?  
JOHN PETERSON: Yeah, no, I mean, I --- the first week when I missed by half a point, that was like, Eh, I missed it, but I was kind of bummed, because when we talked after Greenbrier, I say there and I was 100% sure I did it.   
I started texting with Kristin, and I really only started texting her trying to get in the Deere, because I didn't commit on Friday, but I figured I was in if I would've committed.   
 Q.  Right.  
JOHN PETERSON: So I was just worried about that.  Then she said, Wait, it's going to be really close.  I said, Close for what?  She said, For you to be in the conditional category.  So then I started watching it and started watching specific guys who came in.  Goes all the way down to seemed like the last few guys.   
 Q.  Yeah.  So you say you've got to win or finish second.  Obviously a win takes care of everything.  But the second place,  what would that do?  
JOHN PETERSON: I think with my point total for the year, I think I would be a special temporary.  I don't even know.  I should stop assuming these things because I've been wrong every time.  I guess only a win would do it.   
I was just thinking -- I don't know what the second place points are.  Probably 150, 160 added on to my year total.  That might be good enough for conditional.  I don't know.  I was just guessing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT