MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
John Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN PETERSON:   The drive on 13 stayed in the rough by about, I don't know, an inch or two, and was able to get that on the green.   That was a tough shot because that rough is real sticky.   Two‑putt birdies are always nice, and I had two of them today.

Q.   What did you hit there on 13?
JOHN PETERSON:   4‑iron on 13 and 5‑iron on 15.

Q.   About how far?
JOHN PETERSON:   210. 

Q.   And then on 15‑‑
JOHN PETERSON:   15 was 5‑iron from the same distance, 210. 

Q.   All week and even last week when I talked to you, it's been just another golf tournament.   A lot of people get crazy about the Masters.   When you woke up this morning was it still the same feeling?
JOHN PETERSON:   I was actually kind of running late.   I slept too long.   I was so tired last night.   I think I went to bed at 8:30 and slept until about 5:00.   It was nice.   I was very comfortable out there today, probably because I was playing with Nathan, and I've played a bunch with Nathan, so it was a really good pairing. 

Q.   Talk about your feelings right up until that first tee shot and then after that first tee shot.   Brandt Snedeker said the other day that he's on edge all week and once he gets that first tee shot out of the way he's back to normal.   How was it for you up until that first shot?
JOHN PETERSON:   I think because nobody really thinks I can do well‑‑ I saw a couple lists, and they said guys most likely to miss the cut, and I was on that list.   There's lists like that, and there's guys that you'd better catch a glimpse of on Thursday and Friday, and I was on that list, too.   I was like, I'm going to free it up and kill it and see where it goes.   That's what I did.   If guys are going to expect me to miss the cut, I might as well go and try to prove them wrong.

Q.   How was the first tee shot for you? 
JOHN PETERSON:   It was the worst one of the day.   It went in the right bunker.   But it was so far up there that I only had 9‑iron in, and it wasn't a very hard bunker shot.   I think adrenaline pushed that one a few farther.   I'll take where I was in two.   I had 20 feet right up the hill on 1, and that's where you want on that hole all day.

Q.   Anything under par, you had to be pleased with that?
JOHN PETERSON:   Definitely, very pleased with it.   I feel like I let a few go, but I'm definitely pleased with my round. 

Q.   How is your relationship with your new putter? 
JOHN PETERSON:   I love it.   I'm going to sleep with it tonight.

Q.   I did see one list where it said you were 1,000 to one.   That's a pretty good bet. 
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah.   I mean, come on.

Q.   Do you think if you played this tournament 1,000 times you could win it once?
JOHN PETERSON:   I'm not going to live to be 1,000, so I won't get that chance. 

Q.   Last year at the U.S. Open when did you realize that you had qualified for the Masters?   Did you know going into Sunday or were you told later?
JOHN PETERSON:   I didn't really know until the last green.   I hit my second shot into 18, and I had about 20 feet for birdie, and I couldn't win, even if I made it.   I just lagged it up there and barely made an eight‑inch putt to get here. 

Q.   You knew that it got you here?
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah, I knew at that point that I would be top eight. 

Q.   When you come in here, what kind of expectations do you come here with and what expectations, if any, are different going into tomorrow's round?   Do you feel like a contender compared to how you felt today?
JOHN PETERSON:   I always feel like I can contend.   I think the media kind of puts this pressure on you like you can.   If you read into a list like I read last night and you read into it and you start believing it, then obviously you're dead before you tee it off.   It doesn't matter if I'm the only one that thinks I can play.   I believe I can, so yeah, I felt like I could play, and I feel like tomorrow I'm going to do the same thing, just going to hit it real hard off the tee and real hard into the green and try to make a few putts.

Q.   I hate to bring up the one bogey you made, but on 17 you hit your drive over the Eisenhower tree?
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah.

Q.   Did you pull your second or the wind kind of got you there?
JOHN PETERSON:   That was the only one where it was a stiff breeze into that, and I should have backed off.   I should have changed clubs, but I didn't.   I got over it and I was like I'll just aim right and hook it, and that's what I did, but I pulled it.   It was a really, really tough putt.   I actually hit a pretty good first putt, had seven feet, and it broke.   It looked like it broke up the hill, my second one did.   It looked like it went right up the hill.   I guess that's what you get when you're a first‑timer.   I didn't know that. 

Q.   When you were reading the lists were you searching the web and you found that on the web?
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah, I don't remember‑‑ actually I was told by my pastor in the purple shirt over there about it, and I don't know where he found it.   I'm not going to look at it.   I'm just going to take his word for it. 

Q.   You didn't have any jitters at all before that first‑‑ just the first 15, 20 minutes? 
JOHN PETERSON:   I did there.   I did on the first tee.   But I was very comfortable after that, surprisingly.   I don't know why.   I was last year at the Open, too.   It was really cool teeing off behind them.   I was hoping they were going to leave their ball in the fairway so I could pick it up.

Q.   Did you see them?
JOHN PETERSON:   I saw them up here before we went off, and then we went and putted. 

Q.   Who's an old‑school guy that you loved, an idol or someone that you just‑‑ like an Arnie or a Jack?   Is there a guy from that generation?
JOHN PETERSON:   Not really that generation.   I've always looked up to David, though, David Toms, obviously because of the way he carries himself and him being a Tiger and same school, it's really hard to not like him.   He's helped me a ton. 

Q.   You said your favorite shot here was the second at 15.   What did you have in there today?
JOHN PETERSON:   I had 210, hit 5‑iron.   Really wish I would have made that putt, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT