U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2012
John Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the benefits of playing with David.   
JOHN PETERSON:   Benefits of playing with D.T.?   There's a lot of them.   We can talk about pretty much anything, two Louisiana boys playing in the same group, right in front of Tiger.   It was fun.   
I was surprisingly very comfortable out there from the first tee shot through to the end.   I was pretty comfortable.   I felt like I belonged.   I felt like my game's in shape to play well, I just didn't putt very good.   
   
 Q.   Talk about that last putt on 18?  
JOHN PETERSON:   That was really bad.   I would still be waiting if there was a rule.   There wasn't rule.   I would still be waiting on that putt.   It started kind of wobbling a little bit I thought it was going to go in, but it didn't.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking feeling on the 13 tee at 4‑over?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I was thinking if I got in at 73, 74, that would be a solid round with the way I had putted it today.   But when it went in, man, I don't know what I did, I want to watch the replay.   I hope y'all have a replay so I can see it again.   But I went nuts.   I know that.   I tried chest bump my caddie and I missed and I think I hit his head.   But it was really, really cool.   First one ever.   Being in the U.S. Open on the weekend was awesome.  
   
 Q.   You hit what?  
JOHN PETERSON:   7‑iron.   
   
 Q.   How far?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I don't remember.   I think it was like 181, 182 maybe.   
   
 Q.   Is it true the story about your mom getting an ace on the first time she hit a ball?  
JOHN PETERSON:   She hit one shot in her life and it went in.   And she quit.   Smart girl.  
   
 Q.   Where was that?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I don't remember.   I think it was in Colorado somewhere.   Pretty sure it was in Colorado.   I never really went on their honeymoon.  
   
 Q.   Did you see the ball go in or crowd reaction?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I saw it go in.   I saw it go in and I lost it.   D.T. lost it too.   I think we're pulling for each other, so we both were really excited, it was awesome that it went in.   
   
 Q.   17?  
JOHN PETERSON:   17, I hit a terrible drive.   I had a really bad lie in the rough.   Rough was kind of coming into my ball, from the green, and I had to smash a 9‑iron down there, but I left myself with a perfect yardage.   It was an easy shot and an easy putt too.  
   
 Q.   What was the yardage?  
JOHN PETERSON:   105.   
   
 Q.   The putt?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I don't know.   Five feet maybe.   It's only one I made all day from five feet, so.   If felt good.   
   
 Q.   How did it compare to what you thought it would?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I hit it really well, I controlled it really well, I just didn't score that well.   If that ball doesn't go in for 1, I shoot 74, and I lose a lot of ground.   
But it went in, so it was an all right round.   I need to go putt a little bit after I eat.   I'm starving, but it was an all right round.   Kept myself right there.   
   
 Q.   How many LSU cheers did you guys here and what were they saying?  
JOHN PETERSON:   It was cool for like two or three holes, but after that it was like, gosh, shut up.   We got so many roll tides and go Hogs and all that.   I was fed up with it.   I wanted to throw a ball at them.  
   
 Q.   Were they yelling Tigers, not Tiger?  
JOHN PETERSON:   Well, we got both.   I don't think they knew who I was anyway, so that was all right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT