U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
John Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   John, your route to the U.S. Open included stops at what two locations?  
JOHN PETERSON:   College Station, Texas and Springfield, Ohio.  
   
 Q.   Your round today, you started on No.1.   Tell us sort of how your round flowed today?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I birdied the first hole, which is almost like a 4 and a half par, so that wasn't too bad.   Made good pars on the next three.   Bogeyed 5.   Missed a 5‑footer.   That was really my only bad miscue of the day.   
But other than that I ended up leveling it off.   Made a lot of pars.   Was 2‑over for a long time.   Made a couple of birdies on the back nine, which is in my opinion an easier side, if there is an easier side out here.   But ended up making two birdies to level it off.   
   
 Q.   Looking to the weekend now, your game plan obviously has worked.   Are you going to make any revisions to your game plan now?   You've played the course twice, and you've played it in the order you're going to play it over the weekend.   What are you going to work on today?   What do you think you can do to get it up to an even better number over the weekend?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I can sharpen up my iron play.   I didn't hit it as close as I should have a few times with the 9's and the wedges and 8's.   I kept hitting it to 30 or 40 feet.   And out here you've just got to lag those, because if you run that thing six or seven feet by, it's going to have a foot of break coming back and it's a tough putt.   
I ended up having to lag a lot of putts where I should have been aggressive with my iron play.   And I didn't hit them quite as solid as I should have.   I'll probably go hit some balls after lunch and maybe do a little short putt practice.   But other than just rest up.   I'm still a little tired.   
   
 Q.   It's a tough walk?  
JOHN PETERSON:   It's a tough walk.   Two days in a row.   It's going to be tough for four.  
   
 Q.   Did you find yourself above or below the hole today as far as your putting goes or was it sort of a combination of all of it?  
JOHN PETERSON:   I was below the hole more today.   Partly accidental, because I kept missing the sweet spot.   So I was short a lot.   But I left myself in good spots.   I would miss a green, but I left it in an easy spot where I could chip it up and make a three or four footer for par.   A lot of no stress pars, which is very key out here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT