U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2012
John Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   In a few sentences tell me about your round today. 
JOHN PETERSON:   It was a roller coaster.   Bogeyed the first hole, ended up getting it back to 1‑under and then I got back to 1‑over and I got back to 1‑under.   And I made a terrible decision off the tee on No. 6 and made double. 
And I didn't par the last two holes, either one ‑‑ or didn't birdie one of the last two holes.   So it was a grind out there, but thankfully I made enough birdies to offset the bogeys. 

Q.   Do you see the afternoon wave having a harder golf course than the morning folks did, in your opinion?
JOHN PETERSON:   I think so.   I think because the wind on the cross, the cross wind on 2, 4, 5, those holes where it's a cross and you got to hold it up into it with the lie that's above your feet, it's just a hard shot. 
I think the wind kicks up in the afternoon out here more, as opposed to the morning.   But I think that it's definitely an advantage to be in the morning out here because the greens are fresh and you don't have that brisk breeze like we did for most of our round. 

Q.   Do you, as far as your birdies go for the day, can you describe some ‑‑ you had how many birdies today?
JOHN PETERSON:   Oh, I don't know.   I think I might have had four or five. 

Q.   I don't have my scorecard, so I apologize for that.   Can you describe any memorable shots that were great ones that you would like to recite?
JOHN PETERSON:   I did, I hit a great shot into 1.   I bogeyed 17 and 18, and those two holes are, as far as birdie holes go out here, those two right there are pretty high on the list. 
18's short, it's an iron and a pitching wedge. 
And 17's an iron into a par‑5. 
And I bogeyed both of those holes. 
So I went to 1 and hit a good tee shot and I had 215, 220 yards, hit a 6‑iron to about eight feet and that was a really good shot.   I birdied that hole.
Went to 2, made about a 20‑footer to get back‑to‑back birdies and felt really good after that and unfortunately couldn't keep it at 1‑under.

Q.   Last question, with what you did today and how you played the golf course today, do you see yourself making changes to your game plan in the way you're going to play it tomorrow?
JOHN PETERSON:   I think so.   I will hit driver off No. 6.   I hit 3‑wood and I tried to hold it up against that right wind and fanned it into the rough and had 250 yards from the rough and you can't make par from there.   And I made double. 
So that's the one hole I should have hit driver.   It was my instinct and I went against it and hit 3‑wood and fanned it.   So that's the one hole where I'll make a better decision tomorrow.   But overall, not too bad, not too good, I'm right there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT