WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2017
John Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it like to shoot 63 with a double bogey in front of 250,000 people?
JOHN PETERSON: If I was even par or 1-over at the time, making a double bogey would almost certainly derail a round.  But I had gotten it to 4-under early.
I just kept my head down and kept going.  Yeah, there was a lot of cheers for our group today.  It was cool.
Q. Eagle at 13.  We have the putt here.  When you holed this one, you got right in the mix.  What was going through your mind?
JOHN PETERSON: I hit a great 5-wood from 252 to right there.  I mean, it was one of those that just came down like a wedge and stopped right by the hole, and I was able to make it.  I hadn't been putting good.  I didn't putt good yesterday.  I'm glad they started falling today.
Q. And 18, massive crowds around there right now.  You holed this one for a birdie.
JOHN PETERSON: Yeah, this one was just a little gap wedge.  I was only 128 yards and was lucky to sneak it in the right side there and get me in contention for tomorrow.
Q. You were only able to play three tournaments last year because of injury.  Tell us about that injury and how you are now.  Are you 100% again?
JOHN PETERSON: Yeah, I'm 100%.  It was on my hand right here.  It was a little bit of a shaved bone thing, and bone takes forever to heal.  I was out the whole year and really missed it.
Yeah, it kind of rejuvenated my love for the game, if that makes any sense to you.  I was kind of in a bad place mentally two years ago.  And, you know, I just got married and I'm healthy again.  It's nice to see some results.
Q. You didn't have many pars on that scorecard.  Eight birdies, an eagle, and a double.  How would you describe it?
JOHN PETERSON: You know, I saw the pairing yesterday when I was home, and I loved it.  Jordan and I have grown up together.  He's a little younger than me.  We are from the same area, and we played some golf together.
And Boo is just a great dude and he loves to hunt and fish, like I do, so we had a lot to talk about today.  Any time you get a pairing like that, you're more comfortable.
I was just taking advantage with the good fortune with the pairing.  The double bogey, if I was even par or 1-under or 1-over at that point, I probably would have treated it a little different, but I was 4-under when I made it, so I was still 2-under afterwards.  I was having a good day, so it was easy for me to keep going.
Q. Talk about tomorrow.  You have a legitimate shot at winning this thing tomorrow.
JOHN PETERSON: No, I expect to play well and to be in contention.  I had a great amateur career and college career, and as a professional, obviously I have severely underachieved.  It's been frustrating for me after having the success I did in college and as an amateur.
So this year I have treated it -- I'm coming off injury, but I have really put a lot more work in than I had in my past professional years, and I think I'm starting to see the results.  It's been nice.
Q. It showed today, for sure.  I think you have a shot tomorrow.
JOHN PETERSON: Appreciate it.
Q. Great bounce back today with a 63.  Put yourself right back in the tournament.  What was the key to your round out there?
JOHN PETERSON: I had a really good frame of mind going into today.  It was one of those deals where I saw my pairing yesterday.  I was at home and saw I was playing with Jordan and Boo.  I love Boo.  We hunt and fish and we talk about that.  And Jordan and I play a lot of golf at home together in the offseason.
It was a really comfortable pairing for me.  I just got it going today.  It was a really good day.
Q. 63 with a double?  Have you ever done that before?
JOHN PETERSON: No.  No, I think 63 is my lowest on tour.  I think I have had a few 64s.  But, yeah, I didn't expect, after I made that double with only, I guess, 14 holes left to play to go 6-under from there.
I got on a little bit of a heater there and really wasn't in jeopardy of making bogey after that.  It was a lot of good ball striking and I made a couple good putts, too.  That always helps.
Q. Is the course playing easier today?  We are seeing some more low scores today.
JOHN PETERSON: I think the pins are more accessible.  They want these 200,000 people to see birdies and eagles, and so they made some of the hole locations easier for us.
We were able to get closer on some of the par-5s in 2, and obviously 16 is a spin-back wedge, trying to make an ace there.  Yeah, there were easier hole locations, but still, you have to hit it in the fairway out there.  I did a good job of that today.
Q. What club did you hit on 16?
JOHN PETERSON: That was a gap wedge.  It was a gap wedge.  Hated missing that putt.  Second day in a row I missed one from inside 10 feet on that hole for birdie.  Maybe I'll make one tomorrow.
Q. An is on 15 right now.  Do you think you'll have to go really low again to have a chance tomorrow?
JOHN PETERSON: Yeah, I do.  If he keeps at his pace, I don't know what he'll finish the day at, but I assume he will get to -17 with those last couple of holes.
Yeah, I'm going to have to have mid-60s tomorrow to have a chance, even though he's probably the only guy that we're going to chase unless one of these other guys gets hot late.
I think, yeah, I think I have to do about the same thing tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT