NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2013
John Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you wonder where this was all week, too or after last week ‑‑
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah.   I'm out of gas.   I am.   I'm out of gas.   Next year I won't play more than three weeks in a row, and I knew that after Springfield this year, but obviously I'm not going to skip a finals event.   And I love this place, so I had to come.

Q.   Good Sunday in Fort Wayne, good Sunday here. 
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah.   Where was it last week?   Yeah, I played good.   Yeah, I was just kind of waiting on a storm, you know.   I didn't really get anything going the first three rounds.   Actually I had to battle just to make the cut on Friday.   It was nice that it finally turned around today.

Q.   What turned it around?
JOHN PETERSON:   I have no idea.   I really don't.   I just made a couple putts, and I hit it close today.   18 doesn't like me still.   I hit a good tee shot again, and it hit the top of that tree and came backwards behind the tree, in a divot.   It was like, man, this hole hates me.   This time I made par, though, so it's a small improvement.

Q.   I wanted to ask, you mentioned this inside when I was looking at the projected finishes and stuff.   You've been playing your ass off and you're projected fifth.   And Tyrone Van Aswegen made his first cut here and he's projected seventh if he finishes second.   Have you guys looked at how they might be able to tweak this thing to kind of even out?
JOHN PETERSON:   They probably won't want my input.

Q.   Well, we do. 
JOHN PETERSON:   I don't know.   I like it.   I like that it's four weeks and you gotta play good for four weeks instead of just one week.   I was not a fan of Q‑School.   I hated it and never made it through one stage of it.   I think this is an awesome system. 
Yeah, it's top heavy.   The money is top heavy out here.   You gotta finish 15 to make significant money.   So that's what I was trying to do today.   I started the day at 17th and I knew I needed 4 or 5‑under just to make a good check and really keep my place where I was.   And I did.   I'll probably stay at 6.   I won't probably pass anybody.   I'm happy with how it went now.   I was real fired up at 18.

Q.   Did you set a score at the beginning of the day?
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah.   I thought we'd try to get to 5‑under, and then we did.   And then we were trying to get to 6 and ran it by a little bit on 17 and made par.   I was happy, though.

Q.   What are you going to do with your week off?
JOHN PETERSON:   I'm going to the Auburn game on Saturday.   I can't wait.   Yeah, I'm so pumped to go to the Auburn game.   It's my first game of the year, and I don't know, I probably won't even touch a club my first couple of days back.   I'll just hang out with friends and maybe go tubing or something, something fun.   I won't be near a golf course.   That's for sure.

Q.   And then you're going into the TOUR championship with your sights set on No. 1?
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah.   I haven't seen my family since Colonial in May.   So pretty excited.   They're going to come to that one.   I'm pretty excited to see them too.

Q.   And after the questions about the way the system is set up, you can stay up on FedExCup points for next year. 
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah.   It's the same thing, I think.   It's just points instead of money.   Close, but the same thing.   I saw last week where Henrik won, but Tiger had a huge lead on him to start the week, and then Henrik won and passed Tiger.   And I mean Tiger didn't play good.   But Tiger had a huge lead. 
You have to be in the Top 10.   You just have to be or you won't get enough points to pass anybody if you're not.   It's the same thing out here, which adds excitement to it.

Q.   You're the only guy who's been in the Top 10 in all three events. 
JOHN PETERSON:   Thank you. 

Q.   There are guys, like you were saying, one finish ‑‑
JOHN PETERSON:   Right.   I've just been on a hot streak, you know.   I mean really I hired a professional caddy and joked.   I had a friend out here all year until about a month and a half ago at Springfield is the first one that I didn't.   And I had a veteran there, and I've had David Toms' guy for the last three weeks.

Q.   Scottie Gneiser?
JOHN PETERSON:   Scottie Gneiser.   Yeah.   And he's so good.   I won't be able to keep him.   I know that. 

Q.   You can always use him in Columbus because David's never going to come back here. 
JOHN PETERSON:   David's not going to be here.   We talked about that last night.   He's never going to be back.   So it'll be cool to have him out there next year.

Q.   When did he join up with you?
JOHN PETERSON:   No.   It was the week after.   Fort Wayne.

Q.   So you weren't still using your TCU teammates from Columbus?
JOHN PETERSON:   I didn't go to TCU.

Q.   Oh.   I'm thinking of another guy.   I'm sorry. 
JOHN PETERSON:   He went to TCU.   Phillip Hanson.   No.   I haven't used him since the beginning of 2012.

Q.   Okay.   Yeah.   No, I got you.   I was thinking of somebody else. 
JOHN PETERSON:   That's okay. 

Q.   Are you making any headway in trying to convince Scottie to come over to your side?
JOHN PETERSON:   I don't know.   I'm trying.   You'd have to ask him, though.   I keep telling him to call David.   He just ‑‑ we don't want to do it because David's been so good to me and it would be a really hard call for him to make.   I don't know.   He'll probably stay with David.   David's been ATM for him for so long.

Q.   Are you going to take him through Ponte Vedra?
JOHN PETERSON:   He will.   He'll be at the TOUR Championship.   And I don't know if David is going to play the Fall Series.   So I might have him.

Q.   He'll be Top‑25, I think, next year. 
JOHN PETERSON:   No. 

Q.   Top‑25 in money. 
JOHN PETERSON:   He was fine.   He shot 62 on Sunday at Greensboro to do that, too.

Q.   Are you going to start at Frys?
JOHN PETERSON:   I'm going to start at Frys.   I'll play all four of them.   So that's a lot of golf this year.   Oh, yeah, I played last year.   Played last year on a sponsor.   And then of course, it'll be cool to go back.

Q.   I think you got two weeks off?   You'll do the four North American events?
JOHN PETERSON:   I will.   I'll play all four.   I've played everywhere but Vegas, too.   Looking forward to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT