ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2013
John Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah, they were.   I struggled yesterday, but it wasn't really a struggle.   I hit it great; I just didn't putt good.   We went to the putting green afterwards and worked on it a little bit, and I putted good today.   Just first round was not very good putting, and then I putted great in the second round, and so, so, and then great again. 
So I'm really happy with how I played today, especially after that double bogey on 4, so really happy with that.

Q.   Coming in, 17, 18, birdie‑birdie, a nice way to finish to go on to the next week, I guess? 
JOHN PETERSON:   We'll see.   I'll probably get passed by a couple more people.   So I hope it stands up, yeah.   I'd love it to.

Q.   If that doesn't work out, you have a tournament next week? 
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah, I'm playing on the Web.com Tour in Athens.   We have it packed up and ready to go.   The car is pack up and ready to go to Athens, so we might have to reroute to Charlotte.   It will be a long drive.

Q.   How much does the rain delay bother you? 
JOHN PETERSON:   I had a three‑footer for birdie on 11, and they blew the horn when I was setting over it, so I had to think about that for an hour and a half, two hours.   But made it, and went on to the next one.   Kind of just cruised home from there.

Q.   You said yesterday you're going to spend at least an hour working on the putting?
JOHN PETERSON:   Not an hour.   Probably 45 minutes, max.   I get pretty bored on the putting green to be honest with you.   So I probably spent 45, but it was a good 45.   I needed it.   It really helped today.

Q.   So you wouldn't want to try the Monday qualify at Wells Fargo?
JOHN PETERSON:   No, I won't do that.   I'm in pretty good shape with the Web.com Tour on the money list.   I've taken three off in a row now and guys are passing me.   So I probably need to, if I don't top 10, I'll go straight there.   If I do top 10, it will be a tough call, but we'll see.

Q.   Just like what happened on 4? 
JOHN PETERSON:   I hit it in the water right, and it didn't clear any land, so I had to re‑tee.   Then I hit a great 7‑iron to about 8 feet and missed the putt for bogey.   But after that, it was really good that I came in.   It really told me a lot about myself and how I can play out there after a double bogey.   So it was good to see that.

Q.   You're starting to get more and more comfortable out here? 
JOHN PETERSON:   Yeah, I mean, playing in The Masters is the pinnacle of golf and playing the weekend there was really just, I can be comfortable with anything now.   I thought I was and then I wasn't. 
Sunday I was very comfortable in the Masters.   But once you get over that and you put it behind you, you really know how your game performs under pressure and what your tendencies are.   That's what I knew today.   I knew what I was going to do when I was nervous, and I ended up finishing strong.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT