U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 1994
Lee Trevino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LEE TREVINO:  Read that back.  Read that back.  What did he  say?  Well, it did just exactly what I told you  it was going to do when I was in here.  I said that there  would be quite a few rounds in the red today.  I thought  that and especially last night, after it started raining,  hell, I was already in bed when it started raining  yesterday.  That was early.  I was in bed about 6:00 and,  man, it was pouring out there, but what it does, it makes  the greens bigger.  I think all the pros will tell you  that.  You can use more of the greens; get closer to the  sides of them and the ball will hold up.  Wouldn't run  off of them.  If we don't get anymore rain it, I think  the scores will start edging back up, back up; if it  stays dry from now until Sunday, I won't be very  surprised if anybody breaks par by that time.  I am  talking not in the tournament.  I am talking for that  final round.  Sunday will get very difficult if the  greens are very fast and crusty.  When they do that --  that is what this golf courses is all about.  Fairways,  is like I said, even get a little wider; you can spray  the ball a little bit; it will still hang on the sides.  The rough is not really penalizing you that much.  You  can still advance the ball, you know, pretty good up  around the green.  But all and all, I think it played  very well today.   
 
LEE TREVINO:  Problem is I can't remember them.   
 
LEE TREVINO:  I got it somewhere.  I birdied the first  hole.  I hit a driver 9-iron to the first hole about 20  feet left of the hole and made it for birdie.  Number 2, I hit -- I missed the fairway  right and I hit a 6-iron out of the rough and it went up  on the green, about 15 feet and it rolled back off the  green and I 3-putted it.  I putted it up and missed the  putt.  I parred 3.  And the fourth hole.  I  parred 5, I hit driver, 3-iron, sand wedge, about 5 feet;  made it for birdie.  And I made birdie there and then number  5, I hit a driver and I hit 4-iron; I missed the green  right.  And I putted it again and I putted it a little  bit long, about 6, 8 feet long and I missed it and I made  bogey there.  And then I parred 7 and then 8, I hit a  driver, 6-iron, and I putt it about, oh, about 20 feet  short of the fall and right there and I made it for  birdie.  Par 10, parred 11.  Am I still right?  Yeah, parred 12.  Parred 13.  14 I birdied.  Yeah, I  birdied 14.  I hit a 7-iron about a foot, driver, 7-iron;  about a foot from the hole and made birdie.  Was I 2-under? Then I parred out.  I made  a mistake on the par 5, 16, I drove it a long way there  and I tried to hit a soft 3-wood and I pushed it from the  bunker on the right and I didn't get the ball up and  down.  I think I could have actually hit a 5-wood on  there if I would have hooked the ball a little bit.   
 

Q.  Lee, how did you putt today?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  The way I have been putting.   
 

Q.  Were you pleased?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  Oh, yeah, very pleased.  Very pleased.  I came  very close to a lot.  I was never in jeopardy of  3-putting when I was on the green.  I did 3-putt twice  but I was you know, you got to go-- I count those as  putts.  Most people don't.  Any time I have a putter, in  my mind I count it as a putt even though I was off the  green, you know, 10 feet.  You got to go up the mound and  I 3-putted twice.  Two bogeys came from that, and as a  matter of fact, the only two bogeys I made came from  that.  Missing the greens; putting up and then missing  the seconds one - yeah.   
 
LEE TREVINO:  No.  No.  No, that is common Bermuda on those  sides and it gets-- it is a little touchy when you start  chipping from there because the problem is you can't  bump-and-run if you are going to take a wedge or  something, you are going to have to loft the ball from  that low position up and try to, you know, check it on  the green.  And it is very dangerous, in other words, is  because it is very tight right there.  So everyone is  rolling the ball up the hill and I mean, why not use a  putter if you are going to roll the ball up the hill.  That is the way I feel about it.   
 

Q.  Success using the 5-wood on that?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  Yeah, I won a tournament in Japan this year.  I chipped every chip shot with a 5-wood except one hole  and I got it up and down every time, but once-- I use the  5-wood a lot.  I did it at-- I don't remember which-- I  was playing Charlotte when I won.  I used the 5-wood  quite a bit from off the green chipping it up.  I haven't  used it higher yet.  Probably should have used it those  two times today, but I didn't do it.  But yeah, I have  been guilty of doing that.  Yeah.  Useing the 5-wood  instead of the putter.   
 

Q.  Players have said that the greens on the back  side were a little quicker than they were on the front  side; is that --  
 
LEE TREVINO:  I think they have less grass on them.  Number  9 is much quicker.  I saw Dave Stockton 3-putt right in  front of me.  Then I ran the thing by about three feet  from almost the same spot.  That green looked like it  didn't have as much -- looked like it was 100% bent on  that particular green.  I think they were speeding up  because of the sun - dried out.  I think we all the  morning greens are still damp, sticky; then I think that  what happens, we got on the back nine ; they got a little  quicker because the sun dried them out.  I think that is  the only reason.  I don't think they are different  speeds, no.   
 

Q.  Yesterday Jim said that you were just blowing  smoke about his chances.  I guess --  
 
LEE TREVINO:  No, I didn't say I didn't have any chance  here.   
 

Q.  No.  No.  Jim Albus was saying that you were  blowing smoke when it came to pumping him up.  
 
LEE TREVINO:  I told you yesterday he was playing the best  golf.  I mean, I play with these guys everyday.  I know  who is playing good and who is not; who got the right  attitude and who hasn't; who is strong and who is not.  Jim Albus as strong as that man is, if this rough was  higher, his chances would even be better because he is  the type of guy that can rip it out of the rough, but you  got to understand too, he never went in the rough today.  He drove it right down the middle of every fairway.  He  shot 5 under par and it could have been better.  And I am  here to tell you that.  He will you about it when he  comes in, but I played with the man and I told you  yesterday that they were talking about me and Nicklaus  and Stockton and Weiskopf and those guys I said, you are  leaving one guy out, and I said Albus, Albus has been  playing the best golf probably the last month and he just  has been unlucky here and there and that is all it takes  is one hole or two holes coming down the stretch and you  lose the tournament.  But he has been right there.  He is  playing awfully well right now.  No mistakes.   
 

Q.  Lee, you hit 7-iron, 14, 415 yard hole.  Did  you jump on that?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  I hit the driver pretty long there.  I had 157  yards to the flag, yeah.  
 

Q.  How much?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  But I don't know where the tee markers were,  Ron.  I don't think they had the tee markers all the way  back.  That hole probably measures at 4, whatever, but  they probably play it at about 415, 420.   
 

Q.  How much shorter are you now than you were say  ten years ago?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  I am longer now.  I am longer now than I was  ten years ago.   
 

Q.  Why?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  The graphites, 45 inch driver.  I am not very  damn straight with it.  But I hit it a long way.  I miss  more fairways now than I have have.  I put on 15, 20  yards which is -- I will take the missed fairways to get  that yardage, yeah.   
 

Q.  How was the pace of play today?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  4 hours, 30 minutes.  We waited almost every  hole.  But when you play Pinehurst, let me tell you  something, you want a 7 hour day, yes.  You don't want to  get off this golf course.  Now, there is a lot of courses  that we play where I'd like to get off in two hours and  45 minutes, but this one here, pace of play is fine.  It  doesn't make any difference.  We played in about 4.30.  I  think the first group finished in 4 and then they will  get down and it gets a little bit slower here a little  bit slower there, but I think it was -- we waited every  hole.  Yeah.  18 holes we waited.   
 

Q.  Lee, overall, are you pleased with your  opening round; pleased with the way you played?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  Any time you can play in the '60s first round  of any major championship you have to be pleased.  You  have to be pleased even though I am three shots back, I  am still pleased with the round yes, very much so.   
 

Q.  You talk, as everyone does, so glowingly of  the golf course.  When you talk about it in your own mind  makes it so special?  
 
LEE TREVINO:  No condominiums around it.  You know when you  look across the fairway, you can see other players,  playing 2, 3 holes you are not looking at a big dog going  whoof-whoof over there.  Or swimming pools or all that  stuff over in somebody's yard.  You are not looking at  fences and stuff.  That is what makes this golf course so  great.  You go out there and it is quiet.  All you can  here is the birds chirping.  You don't see any rubber  flamingos in the backyard or something.  That is what is  so great about it.  Yeah.   
 
LEE TREVINO:  Thank you very much.      
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT