U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 1994
Lee Trevino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LEE TREVINO:  I tell you, it was a pleasure.  It is  absolutely in the best condition, I think, I have ever  seen any course in this area.  I don't know how long they  close the golf course to get it prepared, but I am sure  that they have had it closed probably for a couple of  three weeks, probably.  It is very fair.  The greens are,  in my opinion, are fabulous; bent grass.  I don't know if  I have played this course with bent grass before.  What,  19 years ago, I think, they were Bermuda, if I am not  mistaken.  Maybe not, maybe they were bent; then they  converted them to Bermuda and then they went back to bent  again.  The rough I hit -- probably could be a  little problem in spots.  But it is fair, very fair.  You  can advance the ball, in other words, quite aways out of  the rough.  Nothing like what they had at Oakmont or --  yeah, Oakmont.  The fairways have more grass on them than  I have ever seen.  It is literally impossible to get a  bad lie on the fairway.  If they let you touch the ball  and tee it up with your hand, I don't think you can do  any better.  I mean, they are just absolutely fabulous.  And, I think, because of that, if  anything, it is going to make the course maybe play a  little bit longer.  I know we have had a lot of rain,  that has probably lengthened the course out a little  bit.  But they have a lot of grass on it, a lot of grass  on them.  


Q.  Fairways are wide for an Open course?  

LEE TREVINO:  I don't think they are any wider than they  were at Cherry Hills.  Cherry Hills-- you have to  understand one thing, that fairways do get wider, Bob,  when they get -- when they have a lot of grass on them  and they are wet because if you hit a fade it will hold;  if you hit a hook it will hold.  When you get a hard fairway, even though  it may be 30 yards, 28 yards wide and you get the ball  going a little off line, it will run into the rough.  Cherry Hills, in my opinion, the fairways were wide, but  they were hard and the ball was running off the fairway.  I don't think that they are that wide.  You have to  understand one thing here, that Pinehurst lives on the  what we call Turtle Back greens.  These greens may be 2,500, 2000 square  feet, I don't know, but once you get on that green and  you look at it, you can almost take a third away from  that green that -- in other words, if you hit that green  a little to the right, a little to the left, a little  short, the ball is coming off the green.  So the guy that  wins here, in my opinion, is going to be the individual  that can shoot away from flags, that can actually shoot  at plateaus, almost like Augusta -- what they do at  Augusta.  The guy that comes to mind better than anyone I  know that can do that is Nicklaus.  Nicklaus can pick a  target on a green and shoot it too.  I haven't been able  to do it.  I may be aiming away from the flag, but my  hands start working towards the flag when I come through.  I mean, I can't seem to shoot away.  And what they are  going to do here is, we are going -- they are going to  put flags left front, right front, right back, left  back.  And you are going to have to go to the long side  of the flag and try to stay on that side, in other words.  Because if you have looked at these  greens, there is a lot of spots that you can hit the ball  15 feet on the green and then it will catch the hill and  go off to the green.  So, you are going to have to be  very careful about going after the flags here.  You are  going to have to shoot to the plateaus.  And if it stays wet, it stays overcast,  cloudy and we get anymore rain, I don't think the golf  course is going to show its teeth, to tell you the  truth.  I think somebody will shoot it pretty well  because now the ball is stopping and then you can  pinpoint your shots a little bit better when the ball is  stopping.  If it doesn't rain anymore, the sun comes out,  and then they get these greens a little bit on the firm  side, yeah, clean, through, like I said, not much rough,  and the fairways are very forgiving; they are pretty  wide.  But it is going to be tough, you know, on the  greens because of the contour of the turtle back on the  greens, yeah.  


Q.  Do you think we can see record low scores?  

LEE TREVINO:  I don't know what the record is.  We better  find out before we answer that, before you write it,  before I say it.  We better -- I have no idea what the  record is.  I am going to tell you something.  You  can stand right here and play a practice round, and that  course got -- you know, and you go out there and you can  do all you want to with it, but it is still the U.S.  Senior Open.  I know there is still a lot of pressure.  This is the one you want to win, and those greens get a  little tough.  Now, if you -- if you happen to go out  there and not drive the ball very well, I don't care  whether these greens are soft or hard, and you are going  to have -- you are going to have a very difficult time  hitting your second shots on these greens, yeah.  There  is going to be a lot of putting from off these greens up  the mounds and onto the green; not a lot of chipping,  tell you the truth.  


Q.  How does this course set up for your game?  

LEE TREVINO:  Well, I am more of a low ball hitter.  I have  never played this course very well; never done well  here.  The thing that will help me more than anything, if  the greens do stay soft.  I hit more of a lower  trajectory shot.  So, if the greens stay a little on the  soft side, then it gives me a better shot at it.  If the  greens get a little firm, baked out, then I won't -- I  don't think as good a shot -- I am not excluding myself  from winning. In other words, I think I can win, but it  will be a little bit tougher.  I will have to do a little  bit more on the greens, I think, than most, but it can be  done.  This golf course will favor a high ball hitter,  yeah.  


Q.  Laoretti won this tournament in recent  history.  What do you think of the chances of somebody  unknown, a qualifier; how tough is it going to be for  somebody like that?  

LEE TREVINO:  This particular golf course, it will be quite  tough, yeah.  I am not discarding it.  I mean, there is a  lot of good players out there.  There is a lot of club  pros that play very well.  There is some amateurs that  are very good when they turn 50.  So, I couldn't sit here  and honestly say that a qualifier or somebody that comes  in that we don't know, might not win this championship.  I did it in 1968.  Laoretti did it here, what, two years  ago, up in Pennsylvania.  So, no, I wouldn't put myself  out on the limb and say that.  But it is highly unusual to do it here.  This is a very, very difficult golf course, especially  around the greens.  And it is going to take a lot of  experience and a lot of patience on this particular golf  course.  


Q.  If somebody put a gun to your head and said  you've got to take the foursome of you, Jack, Raymond and  Dave Stockton or the field as the winner, which one would  you take?  

LEE TREVINO:  I hope he has blanks in there, because that  will be -- that will be pretty tough.  That field will be  pretty tough.  There is a lot of good players in there, a  lot of good players in there.  You left the guy that is  -- even though Stockton and I and Floyd have won a lot  of tournaments recently, the guy that is actually playing  the best golf - he hasn't gotten a break there- that is  Albus, yeah.  


Q.  He doesn't do too well in Opens.  

LEE TREVINO:  He is playing the best golf he has ever played  right now.  He is well rounded right now.  We kept him out of that winner circle in  the last three weeks, you know, he has been right there  knocking on the door.  He is strong; very, very strong.  Drives the ball well.  And he is putting well right now.  So, you can't keep Albus out of there.  Albus is going to  be a big threat. Wargo -- Wargo hits the ball very  straight, very long.  You got to be careful with Wargo  too.  Mike Hill is always a threat if Mike Hill putts.  I  do not know of any one that can hit the ball from tee to  green as well as Mike Hill.  Mike Hill is very straight  and he's probably as good an iron player as anyone.  Again, he is like me though, he doesn't hit the iron very  high.  If it stays soft, Mike Hill has a much better  chance than if the greens get hard.  But everything with  Mike Hill's game is going to be his putter; if he -- he  has not been putting well the last three, four weeks.  


Q.  You alluded to the fact that it is the Open  earlier.  How much more do you feel the pressure this  week than you would any other week?  

LEE TREVINO:  It only comes around once a year.  You know,  we play 36 other golf tournaments or 37 other tournaments  and we play 4 major championships.  Those are the golf  tournaments if you lose one the next week you are going  to tee up next Friday and there is another one just like  the one you just played in.  The Open Championship and  the PGA, and the tradition for us, they only come around  once a year.  Now, they were asking me out there earlier  about do I get my juices flowing, do I get the fire going  and all this stuff.  I don't get anything going anymore  in a U.S. Open than I did last week or the week before or  the week before that.  I try-- every time I tee the ball  up I try to win.  Naturally, in the back of my mind, yeah,  I'd probably be more nervous coming down this track on  this tournament than I would be, say, in another  tournament that I could tee up the following week and  carries the same prestige.  Yeah, we are all going to be nervous  coming down the track.  I think -- I think basically that  will be about it.  But as far as getting up for it, you  know, and doing this and doing that, I don't do that  anymore.  I don't ever prepare for a Major anymore than I  do any other golf tournament.  Never have.  And I  probably never will.  I just take them as they come  along.  Naturally I am trying to win and I may try to  concentrate a little bit more; not try to take as many  chances like I do at some of the other tournaments,  because in a U.S. Open you always find out that they  generally come out faster than they start backing up a  little bit come Saturday and some Sunday.  You have seen  it at Augusta.  You have seen it at the U.S. Open.  You  just have to be patient and make sure you don't get out  of there too far.  


Q.  The way you and Raymond and David dominated  this year, is that good for the senior tour?  

LEE TREVINO:  I think any time that you have someone that  kind of comes out and takes charge, yeah, I think it is  good.  I don't think there is anything wrong with it.  I  am happy it is me this year right now.  I mean, it is --  the year is not over.  But I have won a lot of  tournaments this year and then Floyd and I were  flip-flopping and Dave Stockton came in there and  Stockton would have won three in a row and I nipped him  at the wire in Nashville.  But yeah, I think it creates a  lot of interest, not only for the fans, but the media and  there is a lot a favorites when you come in there.  You  start getting golf tournaments to where -- I mean, I saw  a headline at the U.S. Open this year, didn't I, where it  said it is wide open?  Do you see what I am saying?  It  is wide open.  You know, so he evidently -- someone  wasn't -- no one was really dominating or winning a lot  of tournaments or anything.  I don't think there has even  been a double winner up to the U.S. Open on the regular  tour -- was there one?  


Q.  Nick Price.  

LEE TREVINO:  Yeah, so -- yeah, I don't think there -- I  think it is good.  I remember when Nicklaus was  dominating and Palmer was dominating, tremendous amount  of interest when Johnny Miller was dominating and then  Watson came by-- he was, what, player of the year six  years in a row.  Yeah, I think so.  


Q.  You have won five this year?  

LEE TREVINO:  Yeah, here and one in Japan.  


Q.  It was a great year.  What is it, your  attitude?  Is it physical?  What is it that you are  playing this well?  

LEE TREVINO:  I found my putting stroke.  I am not hitting  the ball any different than I did in '90, '92, '93.  I am  hitting the ball exactly the same.  Nothing has changed.  My attitude hasn't changed.  I still have the drive that  I have always had.  I hit a lot of practice balls.  But  the one thing that I did at the PGA this year down in  Florida is that I went back to my blade putter.  I put  loft on it and I went back to my old setup, forward  press, pull the trigger, and I haven't missed very many  putts in the last 10 weeks.  That is basically what it  has done for me.  I have always hit the ball, basically,  the same way.  It is just that when I putt, I have always  said that when my putter is hot I will win.  I expect  to.  That is -- that is me.  I think Mike Hill will tell you he feels  the same way.  When he is putting good, he hits the ball  the same way.  Right now, I have just been putting well.  Yeah, been making the ones I should make, and 2-putting  the ones when I get in trouble, and then making the  par-putt, you know, when I get in trouble and I chip the  ball up, eight footer, 10 footer, 12 footer.  I am  holding a lot of -- holding, probably 70% of those, you  know, to save par.  So, I mean if you will look at our us  statistics, if you believe in these things, I guess, I  don't know, I really don't believe in them anyway, I am  not in anything and I am the leading money winner, but  Rocky Thompson is leading in birdies, you understand?  And I am way down the line.  Now, let me tell you what  that comes from.  People say well, that comes from  putting.  Not necessarily.  It may come from putting a birdie putt.  But what about the par-putt?  What has happened with  Rocky is he has made more birdies, but he has made more  bogeys and the thing that I have been doing, which is --  everybody is going to make birdies, everyone out there is  going to make birdies.  It is the guy that keeps them is  the guy that will eventually win.  And that is what I  have been doing.  In other words, when I do hit a bad  drive, I get it back out in front.  I will hit it up on  the green and make that 10 footer, 8 footer, 6 footer,  whatever it is, and I am not giving the birdies back and  I think that has been the difference in the last 10 weeks  for me.  


Q.  Is it important to you to have the most wins  of the year?  Is there a good competition there between  you and Raymond and Dave?  

LEE TREVINO:  I didn't think so because you can ask Bob  Green and Ron here.  I always said that I was cutting  back after three years, and I wasn't going to chase the  rainbow anymore and I keep winning, and I don't know, I  got a couple of hundred thousand dollars on the money,  and I was going to quit, and I wasn't going to do all  this, but yeah, it is important again, yeah, I guess I  might as well finish out the year and see what happens,  yeah.  


Q.  Have you and Raymond played much together  since the Senior PGA final round?  

LEE TREVINO:  Year, we played last week, as a matter of  fact, together we played the first round.  


Q.  Has he mentioned that at all or is that just  ancient history?  

LEE TREVINO:  Well, Raymond's schedule I think he said he  was going to play 20 tournaments this year.  He does his  scheduling and that is it.  I am scheduled to play 25, so   -- but if I am still leading the money and in the  running for player of the year I may play 27, 28, maybe  30.  I'd probably do the same thing this year I did last  year.  When I came home after the tour the wife already  had the Christmas tree up and the presents under it, so  you can tell about how long I was out there and she was  hot.  She said this isn't going to happen again.  I said  you are right, it is not.  I am going to quit early.  We  had breakfast the other day.  She says, you are doing  pretty good, aren't you, kid?  I said, yes.  She says,  are you going west.  I said, no.  She said, you have got  to now, you are leading by too much.  So it looks like I  am going to end up in L.A. and Napa and Hawaii and every  where else I guess, I don't know.  


Q.  You seem to enjoy playing this game as much as  you ever have?  

LEE TREVINO:  I don't do anything else.  That is my hobby.  It is my business.  It is my hobby.  It is my  meditation.  It is my letting off steam.  I like to do it  alone, though, and I have to go home to do that.  I can't  go to any other golf course and get in a golf cart and go  out on the golf course and then just -- I sometimes will  sit under a tree, and just watch the squirrels play for  15 minutes; then I will go out; hit some bunker shots; do  this; do that.  I can't go anyplace else but home to do  that.  That is -- that bothers me a little bit because if  I go to another golf course, before you know it, there is  4, 5 carts there; members come and people want to watch  you play.  I don't want to be performing for them.  I  don't want -- I am out there to relax, so I go home every  Sunday night and then I leave again Wednesday night to go  to the tournament and I go out at Hobe Golf Club where I  am a member and I practice and nobody ever bothers me.  We have 142 members and there is probably 10 there for  the summer.  I go around the golf course and practice and  hit because.  That is all I do.  I love it.  Yeah.  


Q.  Do you not do as many outings?  

LEE TREVINO:  I did one yesterday, in Chicago for Motorola.  They were sponsoring the Western Open.  They wanted me to  come up and I entertained 90 customers at Beverly in the  morning five o'clock in the morning and then at 1:00 I  teed off for a pro celebrity shootout, eight holes at Cog  Hill in the afternoon and then I got back here at 6:30.  I was back in the hotel at 6:30.  But no, I do not do  many outings.  I have three major contracts which are  Spalding, Motorola, Cadillac, and those people want to  see this on television.  They don't want me to stand on a  street corner and try to sell a hubcap or telephone.  You  understand what I am saying?  And they said we don't need  you to be out here entertaining guys and wasting your  time.  We would rather see you resting; hitting practice  balls and get on television.  And that is why I don't get  anymore contracts because everybody else wants time and  they do not take my time up.  They pay me a hell of a lot  of money, and I play extremely hard for them.  And they  know that.  And they get all their benefit from  television.  


Q.  Now, you go home early in the week and you get  recharged?  

LEE TREVINO:  Every Sunday night.  Yeah, I probably do -- I  probably will do probably 6 outings a year, if I do that  many.  Which is nothing.  Chi Chi does 160, probably, I  don't know.  Chi Chi does quite a few, but I do about-- 6  is all I do.  


Q.  Do those days early in the week going home and  sitting under that tree enable you to continue to enjoy  when you are away from home playing in the tournaments as  much as you?  

LEE TREVINO:  I'd rather be home.  I got a five year old  daughter and a 22 month old son.  I have a blast with  them.  I really have a lot a great time simply because it  is my third family and I never spent much time with my  other two.  Because I stayed gone all the time.  I'd  leave home for two, three months at a time and I never  watched them grow up or change or they ask questions, and  whatever.  I spend a lot of time with these two kids and  I hate to leave home, but that is my business.  I have  got to leave.  That is why I make the dollars I make, I  guess, and have the sponsors that I have is because I do  leave and go play.  And I practice hard, but I work four,  five hours a day when I am home on the golf course.  


Q.  What I am saying is those early days of the  week that you carve out for yourself, make it bearable to  be away that enables you?  

LEE TREVINO:  Yeah, it charges my batteries up, yeah.  


Q.  What is the latest with Herman?  

LEE TREVINO:  He is here.  Herman is doing great.  He is  just trying to get his strength back now.  He lost 72  pounds and he will caddy for me at Northville which is  what, four weeks away.  Three weeks away or whatever.  


Q.  What is the prognosis just have to keep the  weight down --  

LEE TREVINO:  Herman has an enlarged heart and he -- heart  failure is what he has.  Herman had the problem of when  the heart pumps and extracts the blood out of the heart  an average person about 70% of it goes into the muscle  tissue and what have you, Herman's heart was only  extracting about between 40 and 50% of the blood.  He was  weighing 321 at the time and the doctor says if we can  get this guy down to 225, 230, you know, he has got a  chance to live.  If he doesn't lose this weight, the  condition his heart is in, he said, he will not see Santa  Claus.  That is why I sent him to Duke University to the  rice diet and took the weight off.  He looks great.  But  he doesn't have much strength right now.  He is walking a  couple of holes here and couple there.  Hopefully he will  be ready by --  


Q.  Any danger of him coming back --  

LEE TREVINO:  No, they said there is not much we can do.  If  he gets sick again, he is going to have to be the kind of  guy that is just going to have to sit around and wait  until it stops, you know, I take him with him everywhere  he sits in the hotel.  


Q.  Down in Florida you said you weren't going to  let him down on the bag unless he lost 100?  

LEE TREVINO:  He is getting down little by little.  I had  him up there for 11, 12 weeks, that is enough.  You know  you eat rice and beans for 12 weeks out there you can  kill somebody.  I didn't want him to get real mad at me.  I mean, he might pull that knife out on me, man, I better  take him out, you know, but he knows that if he starts  gaining weight I am sending him right back in there.  Yeah, but he is doing great.  We laugh.  Boy, I have had  a ball with him for two weeks.  I don't know who our  neighbors are over at the hotel but they are catching an  earfull out there.  Okay fellows, ladies, thank you very  much.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT