JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2012
Knut Borsheim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KNUT BORSHEIM:   Made some good ups and downs and after that, just played fairways, greens, and easy to play.   
   
 Q.   And nice finish as well, when you are in a good position and still managed to get something out of it.   
KNUT BORSHEIM:   I didn't have that far in, only had a five iron but was a little bit thick and hit a little left, really nice up‑and‑down from there, so that was nice.   
   
 Q.   The way you said that suggests that you like to rip it out on a course like this if you can.   
KNUT BORSHEIM:   It suits me pretty well, fairly long carry on my ball, and I can take advantage of the par fives.   
   
 Q.   Where has this come from?   We have not seen you up on the board for a considerable time.   
KNUT BORSHEIM:   Well, it's been‑‑ the season has been very new to me, all of the tournaments we are playing in and just the environment, you have to adapt I guess.   I've taken some time off now and just practising with my coach, and it's kind of back to scratch.   
   
 Q.   Tell me if it's fair to say, but you look like you've moved in the right direction a few times and then faltered just that little.   
KNUT BORSHEIM:   Yeah, it's been‑‑ it has not been‑‑ I've been scrambling and had a little bit‑‑ it's not really something that's lasted and that's why I took the weeks off, so I can really work on my game.   Today, I played solid, solid golf.   It could have been better; could have been worse but a really solid round of golf and that's nice and gives you confidence for the next, because you're hitting good golf shots, hitting good chips and putts.  
   
 Q.   Taking time off, was it very much your decision?   Did you come to that decision yourself or other people advising you?   
KNUT BORSHEIM:   No, that was me.   I think a lot of people just want you to play all the time.   I needed a break.   So it was nice.   I played The Challenge Tour in Norway, started to play pretty well there.   Had a two week break before that.   Played fairly well.   Shot 16‑under and finished 18th, but I felt like I was in the right direction.   It's always exciting to come here and see that it's working better.   
   
 Q.   When you've got your card, do you think, oh, I can play this?   
KNUT BORSHEIM:   Yeah, yeah, you get really keen on playing.   All of the stuff around, it's so nice and then all of a sudden, you're just so tired.   And especially if it doesn't go your way, I guess if you're playing well, you assume it's easy.   And if it's not going your way, you are constantly missing cuts, it's tough.   There's a lot of guys been through that, almost everyone.   
   
 Q.   Having had that break, does that freshen your attitude?   Do you just let it happen?   
KNUT BORSHEIM:   I just have to play the best golf I can and see what happens.   Can't really force it.   Last year I played in The Challenge tour with invites, and the last invite, I finished second in Kazakhstan.   Nothing really you can do.   Just play your best.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT