NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 8, 1999
Brian Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Brian, you have been through a lot this year. For the folks who maybe have forgotten
your start off the year, you were kind of pushed out of the starting rotation; had a stint
down in Tucson, came back and have pitched very well. Talk about the emotional
rollercoaster you have been on this year and how good it feels to be a starter now in the
Playoffs?

BRIAN ANDERSON: Well, it was certainly disappointing. I knew that in fact when Randy
Johnson was going to make his announcement where he was coming, I told my parents I said,
listen, if he says Arizona, I promise you the trade rumors will start up immediately and
you know, because I knew that I was basically going to be the guy that was going to be
forced out. It was disappointing, but at the same time I believe everything happens for a
reason. And I tried to do the best I could in spring to prepare myself and coming out of
spring training in the bullpen, I wasn't pitching a whole lot. When I didn't pitch very
well, they wanted to get me some starts and sent me down, so even though I knew when I was
coming back up it was just a real low point. Then I had to come back up early because of
Todd's injury, and didn't throw well for a while; just couldn't seem to get it
mechanically right. I was watching the game Pedro Martinez was pitching; some of the
mechanical things that he did, just kind of a light went off in my head. I said, tonight I
am going to give that a try. I did. The mechanics straightened themselves out and things
took off from there. Going in the rotation and back to the bullpen for a month, a couple
of starts at the end of the year, was just basically all I could control is my performance
and if I make sure that I keep myself ready, keep my body in good shape, keep my mechanics
the way they are, and stay positive whether it is a starter, middle relief, long relief,
whatever, they are going to have me do, they are going to get my best, and I have just
tried to maintain that attitude all year. It has been a whole lot easier to handle that
instead of getting wrapped up in, well, I'd think I should be doing this or I think that.
Just try to do the best whatever I do.

Q. Second part of that question was the emotion of pitching in the Playoffs now for
this team.

BRIAN ANDERSON: You look back at where you started where you are now and it is a whole
lot different. But like I said, I just try to take the ball in any situation, whether you
come in the 5th or 6th inning or come in the 2nd or you start the game, your job is to get
the guy out that is in the batter's box, period; doesn't matter what time of game it is.
This happens to be the start of a game and the emotions of it are -- it is very fortunate
for me that I have been able to be a part of this before and you have an idea of what to
expect; what the emotions are going to be like; how loud the crowd is going to be. I have
never heard a New York Playoff crowd that I have played in, but I have seen them. They are
loud. That is exciting. Knowing that makes just one more part of game you don't have to
worry about; just concentrate on getting the hitters out.

Q. Are you going to be on pitch count tomorrow and if you have agreed with Buck's
decision to take you out of the game --

BRIAN ANDERSON: (Laughs) Absolutely not. I will not be on a pitch count tomorrow. And
very rarely have I agreed with No. 11 on me taking me out.

Q. You talked about being there before. Al Leiter was there kind of took care of you.
Can you talk about that?

BRIAN ANDERSON: I think Al's proven that he is a big-game pitcher. He starts Game 7 of
the World Series and pitched outstanding baseball against us. They went on to win that
game in extra innings. Then the backs up against the wall, against the Reds he comes out
with 130 plus-pitch-complete-game-win, saving their bullpen. That was a big -- that was
big for them because guys had been just going all out that last week and a half to try to
get into the Playoffs and everybody pitched a lot. The bullpen is getting used. I don't
know about overuse, I don't follow them that closely. I guarantee that the people in the
bullpen, they all appreciated that complete game effort. When you do that, that kind of
pitching in those kind of games, that is a dangerous pitcher. That is a guy who doesn't
let things bother him; who is not intimidated by a do-or-die situation. Those are the
toughest guys to compete against.

Q. What kind of a threat is Edgardo Alfonzo when you pitch against him?

BRIAN ANDERSON: He is huge because I haven't gotten him out too many times even when I
was in winter ball in Venezuela in 1995. But he was -- he just is -- great hitter for the
No. 2 spot. He puts the bat on the ball. If he gets a count in his favor he can hit the
ball a long way. He is a real threat and someone that you are going to have to pitch very
carefully to. As long as -- there is a lot of other guys in that lineup too that are the
same way, but I think where he is positioned in the lineup he can do a lot of different
things from that No. 2 hole so you have to be really weary of him.

Q. Could you elaborate on exactly how watching Pedro Martinez on television helps you
get your mechanics right?

BRIAN ANDERSON: Well, he was, you know, he kind of clears his front side out as far as
after his leg kick, when that front leg comes down, he really gets his hips into the
pitch. I think that I was closing myself off too much. Kind of drifting instead of staying
tall up over the rubber and exploding to the plate, I was kind of drifting out, somewhere
between first base and homeplate, kind of drifting that way and then trying to come back
around. I really wasn't throwing across my body too much; just was kind of drifting that
way. Obviously that little, you know, little difference between doing it right and doing
it that way is going to affect the way you are releasing your pitches. I didn't real feel
good playing catch in the outfield before a game throwing the ball back and forth during
BP, it didn't feel right. I saw him do that, how he cleared that front leg out. I thought,
man, I am going to really try to stay up tall on that rubber and get that front leg out
there and I did that and it just really straightened everything out; got everything back
on track. Not quite with his stuff, but good enough for me.

Q. Have you ever picked up things like that from a righthanded pitcher?

BRIAN ANDERSON: No. That was only first time. I am not a big video guy. I don't like to
go watch video and study my pitches and my mechanics. Usually I think that you can feel
something is wrong. Usually you can fix it on your own. That is the way it is out on the
mound, you can have a guy running out on the mound and say you are doing this but you have
got to self-coach yourself. It was a situation where most of the time I can tell what I
was doing; what I needed to fix. This time, I couldn't, and from a right-hander really
never picked anything up like that, no.

Q. You talked about having been through these things before. What sort of things do you
do to cope with the pressures of these situations?

BRIAN ANDERSON: I think a lot of it is just trust in what you do. The fact that we have
been playing this game for a long time and you can't get caught up in the emotions of it
meaning, you know, thinking about the cameras, the people, how loud it is going to be, we
are on the road; you are in the Big Apple, all these peripheral things having nothing to
do with the game itself, the actual nitty gritty, Xs and Os, you can't get up thinking
about that. You have to have all your energies focused on the game. You have to stay
relaxed. I am a guy that you are not going to see me sitting in my locker two or three
hours before a game listening to music, getting focused. I think that burns me out. If I
do something like that I will be so knotted up by game time I won't be able to function. I
like to goof around like every other day, relax and have fun and then when 1:09 hits or
8:17 or whatever the starting time is, that is when you kick it in. That is just the way
that I handle it. Just try to go about it the same as I always do. I think the only time
you get nervous or you find yourself a bit nervous is when you are unprepared. I think if
you prepare yourself, prepare yourself on how to pitch their lineup, prepare yourself to
be ready to go, to get your stamina up; take care of yourself, then I don't think there is
anything to be nervous about.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT