OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
February 17, 2007
Wayne Levi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  I know you're probably glad to finish, given the alternative of coming back at 7:30.  But second straight 69 and 138, 4-under, you're tied for the lead.  A couple thoughts about the round, you started with a bang with an eagle.   
 WAYNE LEVI:  Yeah, holed my second shot at No. 10, so that always gets things off to a good start.  I had 116 -- 118 yards, I hit a pitching wedge, it was just a perfect shot and landed about a foot short of the hole and kind of jumped past the hole and spun sideways right in.  So that's a good way to start.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Then you made a couple of pars and birdied 14.   
 WAYNE LEVI:  Yeah, birdied 14, I hit a nice drive.  I laid up, perfect position about 705, 80 yards and hit a nice wedge in there, must have been six, seven feet, made that one.   
 No. 1, I hit a good drive and tried to hit it low with the wind up and it was getting pretty cold.  And I tried to hit it low and I kind got ahead of it and pushed it into the right rough.  Hit a good chip to about six feet, but missed the putt.  That green is exposed there.  It's hard to stay still.  The wind is blowing and it's pretty chilly and missed it.   
 Then No. 3, I hit a good drive on No. 3 and it went into the rough on the right-hand side.  I can't believe it did.  I thought I hit a good second shot, too.  The ball, it's so cold out there, that the ball doesn't go very far.  And I thought I hit a really nice shot and came up short of the green and trickled down this bank and it's in the front there.  I hit a not-very-good chip, maybe about 12 feet short of the hole and missed the putt.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Started to get a little dark and you birdied 7.   
 WAYNE LEVI:  7, I hit a good drive on 7.  My second shot was a 3-wood right in front the green, about five feet off the edge of the green.  I must have had 80 feet to the pin.  I think the pin was back 25 or 26 and so that was that, 75 feet and I was a little off -- about 80 feet is probably pretty accurate.  I putted down there about three feet and made that for birdie.  Good 2-putt from there.   
 Then No. 8, I hit a terrible drive on No. 8.  I just didn't want to -- just protecting, hitting it left and I pushed it to the right and went down in the crap there on the right.  And I wedged it out on to the fairway and hit a another wedge in there about 12, 14 feet, missed that one, so I made bogey there.   
 No. 9, I hit a beautiful drive and I hit -- I had exactly 166 yards to the hole.  I hit a nice little 6-iron just perfect, landed, I don't know, three feet short of the hole, went three feet past and made that one.   
 That's funny, had about a 3-footer, that's about the same length of put I had to win the Atlanta Golf Classic in the dark, the year I won in the dark, it was about 3 1/2 feet, and that was pretty dark right there.  So I was just kind of remembering that.  That's what it kind of felt like was about a three-footer and I knocked it right in there.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  But you're glad to get in.   
 WAYNE LEVI:  Definitely.  It's a shame, I can't believe it's this cold.  It's hard to believe.  I've been in Tampa, Florida a long time, and this is cold.   
  
  Q.  Was there a significant difference in the conditions today, as opposed to yesterday?   
 WAYNE LEVI:  No, I don't -- well, I'd have to say yeah, because the wind was blowing harder yesterday.  And it was, you know, it was -- even though it was cold yesterday and the wind was -- it was blowing much harder than today.  So I think it played more difficult yesterday than it did today.   
  
  Q.  What are the keys to finishing in the dark?   
 WAYNE LEVI:  Well, you've just got to -- when these things try to, you know, finish on the last guys -- of course when we were in Atlanta, I was in the last group, so that was the end of the tournament.   
 Here, a lot of players probably didn't finish.  You're just trying to get done.  If it's dark, you'll play in the dark.  If you're on that last hole and you want to finish it, you'll do it.   
  
  Q.  How much of an advantage or of a help will it be to not have to come back out here first thing in the morning to finish the round and knowing that you're going to be in the last group tomorrow?   
 WAYNE LEVI:  It won't have a lot of effect.  Even if I had to come out and play a little bit, it would have been all right.  It wouldn't have been a big deal.  But then you have to sit around for a while, it's that type of thing.  We do it all the time.  It's not like it's a once-in-a-lifetime type thing.   
  
  Q.  A bunch of guys together heading into tomorrow, with conditions similar, does it become a contest of shot-making tomorrow or just survival in these elements?   
 WAYNE LEVI:  It's going to be a survival type thing.  It's going to be lousy I heard and windy and cold again.  You know, it favors the bigger guys, the guys that they have got -- they can stand up more in the wind and, you know, hit the ball far.  You know, that's a big advantage when the conditions get lousy like this.  Some of these holes are going to play pretty difficult tomorrow.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT