U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Wayne Levi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Was your round a bit better today?
 WAYNE LEVI:  I played similarly to how I did yesterday.  But on a couple of holes I was able to get the ball a little closer to the hole.  On some of the key driving holes I drove the ball today than I did yesterday.  That's what produced a good round.  I rolled the ball on the greens better today.
Q.  You stayed with  Craig Stadler, that's a good start.  You're right up there with him.
WAYNE LEVI:  Yeah, I got off to a good start.
Q.  You made up a little ground from yesterday.
 WAYNE LEVI:  Yeah, I got off to a good start today.  I birdied the first two holes.  That gives you a good mindset when you're out there.  You're kind of forging

ahead.  If you bogey the first hole, you're kind of playing defensively already.  I wasn't doing that.  I felt pretty good out there.  I drove the ball in the fairway and I gave myself a lot of opportunities to make birdies.
Q.  You hole the first two and the birdie the par 5s.
 WAYNE LEVI:  Those par 5s you have to be careful.  There's lot of slope.  You got to get the ball on the right of the hole there because there is a lot of slope.

I did that    a few of the short holes I took advantage of, and that's where I'm at.
Q.  Does the last one take a little bit of the edge off?
 WAYNE LEVI:  A little bit.  You don't like to do that, but that's the way it goes.
Q.  You had such a great start to the season this year with a bunch of top 10s right in a row, does that drive you to win
 WAYNE LEVI:  Yes.  I'm there.  As long as you stay in contention and keep shooting sub 70 rounds, there is going to be a time this year and you're finally going to succeed and break through to win.
Q.  You obviously like your position at this point.  It's a pretty good place to be.
 WAYNE LEVI:  Oh, yeah, in the four round tournament you always worry about making the cut.  This an event where we have a cut.  It's like playing in a regular tour really.  You have to worry about making the cut.  You have to play a good second round obviously, then you have the last two rounds to make some money.
Q.  What do you plan on doing during your free time this week?
 WAYNE LEVI:  Well, today I'm going over to the air museum again.  I was over there the other day.  I didn't get to see half of it.  So I'm going go over there and spend the rest of the afternoon over there.  It's very interesting.
Q.  Tom Watson said he was going over there, too.  Are you going with him?
 WAYNE LEVI:  No, probably not.  But I'll probably see him there.
Q.  Thank you, Wayne.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT