TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2014
Bobby Wyatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   We will jump in and get started.   Bobby Wyatt, thanks for joining us in the interview room at the 2014 Travelers Championship.   Recently graduated from University of Alabama and went out with a bang, consecutive NCAA championship titles.   Congratulations on that.   With that, just some comments on being here this week for the Travelers. 
BOBBY WYATT:   Yeah, I'm thrilled to be here.   It's so exciting for me to have this opportunity to play in the Travelers Championship, any PGA TOUR event, but especially here.   It has such a good reputation.   I've heard some good things and met some really nice people so far, and I'm really looking forward to getting started on Thursday. 

Q.   What's your realistic expectation this week?   Obviously it's a whole different world for you, but you obviously have plenty experience playing competitive and high‑level golf.   But what's the difference?
BOBBY WYATT:   Yeah, as far as expectations, trying not to put any on myself.   I want to play as well as I can, play my game, however that may be, and play my best golf.   Hopefully that will stack up where I want it to. 
DOUG MILNE:   Have you had a chance to get out and see the course yet, how it kind of sets up for your game? 
BOBBY WYATT:   I've played it twice, once yesterday and once this morning.   It's a great track.   I think it's a pretty fair test.   It has a few tough holes, but I think you can certainly make some birdies, but at the same time you've got to really be cautious with certain pin locations.   I'm excited about getting out there and seeing what it has in store for us. 

Q.   Do you have any other starts at PGA TOUR events?
BOBBY WYATT:   No, sir, not right now. 
DOUG MILNE:   We've had a handful of guys in here making their TOUR debut this week and they've all commented on what a perfect event the Travelers Championship is, and how they go above and beyond offering opportunities to a lot of young guys like that.   Without trying to put words in your mouth, is that something that you've noticed about an event like this? 
BOBBY WYATT:   Oh, certainly.   Like you said, they do a wonderful job of being nice to young players coming out and making their professional debuts.   I think everyone wants to play in the Travelers Championship and debut here.   It's a dream come true for me.   I can't tell you how thrilled I am and thankful for the opportunity. 
DOUG MILNE:   Are you coming out with any set of expectations?   Obviously the goal is to win, but‑‑
BOBBY WYATT:   Right.

Q.   Are you a goal‑oriented person? 
BOBBY WYATT:   For sure.   I certainly want to play well and finish well, but I can't really control that.   That's what I'm trying to get in my mind is that if I play well, that'll be there in the end.   I'm just really focused on doing what I can control, and that's how I play. 
DOUG MILNE:   Thanks for your time.   We appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT