U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Jacob Koppenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell me about making the quarterfinals. It has to be a thrill.
JACOB KOPPENBERG: Oh, this is a dream. I mean, I've worked -- I played pretty hard this year and lost. We had a match play tournament up in Washington State, lost in the semifinals, so that kind of stung a little bit. So kind of hoping to redeem myself, and just kind of one match at a time. It's a grind, and at this point no one is going to give you a match. Try to stay in the moment, hit good shots, and hope for some good competition.
Q. Obviously what happened on 18 green was kind of frustrating, but it's not easy from the back of that green.
JACOB KOPPENBERG: No, we were going -- we were debating in between clubs, but the ball goes so far, it's hard to convince yourself that you can hit pitching wedge out of the sand 175. Probably what we should have hit, but we chipped a 9, we hit the shot we talked about, didn't work out, got us in an impossible spot, lost the hole. But thankfully I had a one-stroke lead going into that hole, or a 1-up lead. So you've just got to reset, get to the next hole and it's like you're starting fresh.
Q. How did you reset going to the tee?
JACOB KOPPENBERG: You know, I hit it a little longer than him. He's hitting iron. I'm a little more aggressive. I knew I was going to go for it in two, so I kind of banked on that. He's a very good wedge player. So I just knew if I could get it on the green in two and have two putts to birdie, I would force his hand to hit a good wedge shot in there.
It's starting fresh. If someone offered me one hole, downhill par-5 to get to the final 8, I would take it at the beginning of the day. You just have to reset and look at it as an opportunity.
Q. Tell me about the swing on the second shot on No. 1, the playoff hole.
JACOB KOPPENBERG: It was probably one of the better swings we made all day. I mean, we were in between -- we weren't really going with a 3-wood, but we just thought a little hot hybrid up the right would be good, and my final swing off the tee on 18 and on 17, legs getting a little tired, kind of just got stuck, so I just made it a point, just give it one more good swing. All you need is one more swing. Just turned on it and just hit it flush.
Q. And two-putted from how far?
JACOB KOPPENBERG: What did we have, about 45 feet? Yeah, 45 feet, hit it to a foot and a half. You can't get much better than that.
Q. Last question, I know you work with college golfers --
JACOB KOPPENBERG: Yeah.
Q. At your alma mater. What would you tell them about this experience?
JACOB KOPPENBERG: Oh, man, you don't want to get old, so cherish your low 20s and stuff. But this is the funnest tournament. These guys are former pros, former all-Americans. I mean, the pedigree here is unbelievable. And then everyone is just a little bit more laid back. I think you've got life a little bit more figured out. They have jobs, kids, families. This is my favorite tournament I look forward to every year, and I would tell these college guys, if you're not going to turn pro, don't chase it, keep the club in your hand because when you turn 25 you've got years to play in this thing. Yeah, I would hope they look forward to something like this if they stay amateur.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT