AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2001
David Prinosil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Could you tell us exactly how you're feeling now and how bad it got on court?
 
DAVID PRINOSIL: I'm feeling pretty okay now.  I had little heat problem, you know, it was very, very warm outside.  And I think the temperature on center court was like 52 or something.  54 on center court.  There's no wind on center court.  That's why it's like a little worse than on the outside courts.  I was feeling all right until 5-all I think in the first, and then I was trying to go for the quicker points and I played actually a very good match in the first set and I had 6-2 in the tiebreaker.  I think I could have won the tiebreaker.  And was gonna look a little bit  -- a little different.  But it's tough to go a few sets down and to go in best-of-five sets.  It's tough to continue.  I just said,  "Okay, it's my health, I want to stop.  I don't want to play." 
 
Q.  Did they tell you what your pulse got up to? I heard it got very, very high. 
 
DAVID PRINOSIL: The pulse was like, I don't know, when I sat down was like 160, 150.  And normally after one minute it's going like 120, 110, you know.  Didn't go.  Got to like 140, stayed like 140, 150.  So our physio trainers also said that it's better to stop.  
 
Q.  I didn't understand when you actually started to really first feel it. 
 
DAVID PRINOSIL: 5-all in the first. 
 
Q.  Just to clarify, do you think if you won one of those set points you might have attempted to keep going because there's a prospect of a shorter match and you might be able to last?
 
DAVID PRINOSIL: I don't know.  But, you know, it's mentally a little different.  It feels little different for me, feels a little different for Andre if he sat down.  I was up.  I couldn't tell.  Probably not.  I had to see the first games in the second set.  But as I said, I had, in the past, I had a few problems with the heat.  Last year at the US Open also was very hot, and maybe I have to train like in the sauna next time. 
 
Q.  Have you ever withdrawn from a match because of heat exhaustion in the past?
 
DAVID PRINOSIL: No, I didn't withdraw, but I was feeling really dizzy in the US Open first round. 
 
Q.  Is that the hottest you've noted on court or have you played in worse?
 
DAVID PRINOSIL: I've played, a few years ago I played in Adelaide was also.  But, you know, on the center court is a little different.  In Adelaide was like 42 outside, on the outside courts.  I think this was much hotter. 
 
Q.  Do you think with Andre Agassi returning serve, it makes it feel even hotter than 54?
 
DAVID PRINOSIL: Feels like 85.  No, as I said, I mean, good first set, good chances.  But if your body is not coming, it's difficult.  
 
Q.  Do you feel all right now?
 
DAVID PRINOSIL: I feel much better.  I feel a little tired, but I feel much better.  I hope  -- I have to play doubles tomorrow and I'm gonna see.  Tomorrow should be much hotter than today.  I'm gonna see in the morning how I gonna feel and I'm going to decide if I play doubles or not.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT