U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1995
David Prinosil
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. David, you have done pretty well this past summer. Is it possible you underestimated
this player; you had not seen before?
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: I didn't know him before, so it is very difficult if you play a person
who you don't know in a Grand Slam. He was playing very well from the beginning. I didn't
play so well from the beginning, but serving pretty well. I couldn't make a break. And I
lost -- I make too many doublefaults; that is why I lost the first two sets.  
 
Q. And after that, you had a couple of leads. What happened then?
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: In the third set, I was -- fourth set I was 4-1 down, and then I played
good game to break his serve again, and then I start playing pretty well. And in the fifth
set, I got some chance. I didn't get it; that is why I lose. 
 
Q. What did you think of him? What sort of strengths does he have? 
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: I mean, he is very aggressive player, so he is going -- I mean, he was
going after my second serve. He was going to the net and he was very aggressive. First
serve he played serve and volley. He has good backhand, but it is -- I don't know, a
little bit shaky forehand. He is not moving so well from the baseline, so if he has to
work on it and he will be, for sure, a good player; especially on hardcourts on the fast
surfaces. 
 
Q. You did understand that he was the No. 1 junior in the United States? 
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: I didn't know that.  
 
Q. You didn't know that?
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: No. Nobody told me before.  
 
Q. Did you think it might have been wise to find out something about him before the
match?
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: Yeah, I asked some players from Germany. They told me -- Alexander
Mronz told me he played doubles against him and he just told me he is serving pretty well;
good backhand and played good volleys, but the other thing is, I mean, you come to the
court and first time you see what he is playing. 
 
Q. What was the crowd reaction? I mean, was it very much in his favor? 
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: Yeah, it was very much. Sometimes a little bit too much.  
 
Q. Did it bother you?
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: Not so much, but I mean, if you make a doublefault and everybody
screaming and there -- I think that is not fair. 
 
Q. David, you often hear players complain that the fans are cheering your mistake and
they don't like it. But if you go to a football match --
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: This is not a football match. This is not a football match. You can
scream every time in a football match. 
 
Q. Why should it be any different?
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: Because we have to concentrate more. I think because in the football
match, there are about 100,000 people. So I mean, on Center Court maybe it is the same. I
played doubles. It is the same, everybody is moving, but that is okay. You can concentrate
on the Center Court -- is something else, but this is a small court. So it is a little bit
different. I mean, if you have to concentrate on your tennis and everybody is screaming,
but it is okay. Can do it. 
 
Q. You think sometimes tennis players are a little too sensitive about those things?
 
 DAVID PRINOSIL: Yeah, sometimes, but I think we got some rules that the people can move
between the points and everything, but sometimes, you know, the player, they are so
concentrate, they need it. They need it to concentrate and not everybody is moving over
there -- I don't know.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT