ORLANDO CITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 23, 2019
James O'Connor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New York Red Bulls - 0, Orlando City - 1   
 Q.  Is that the best you've seen?  --  
JAMES O'CONNOR: Decent players.  The identity of this group can't be -- what I love about the performance of our team -- to get the reward tonight is great.   
 Q.  Very difficult to beat the Red Bulls here.  They haven't lost here since, I don't even recall.  What did you do so well that kind of stopped the Red Bulls from scoring?  
JAMES O'CONNOR: Yeah, I think we made is very difficult for them to attack, when they wanted to attack.  Caused a lot of problems on side -- got hit a few times and I think that the attitude and the work ethic from the players was very good.  I thought we played smart.  We made it very difficult to attack when they wanted to.   
 Q.  The team seems so much better organized with the three-centerback formation, as opposed to the four-back from last week.  What do you know notice about the three-centerback formation that makes the team play so much better?  
JAMES O'CONNOR: Again, I think when you get -- you want to keep that balance.  Understanding -- blocking the passes and transition was very, very.   
 Q.  What do you think of the performance of your two centerbacks?  
JAMES O'CONNOR: Look, managed at the start -- it was nice able to get them a few minutes tonight.  We spoke a lot about the mentality, and the players who stepped in tonight all did exceptionally well.   
 Q.  After the performance last week?  
JAMES O'CONNOR: I think the frustration -- when you get a performance like that, we're very good.  We felt the one point we had on the board -- there's a lot of people -- the quality and then it wasn't necessarily just a one-off game.   
 Q.  What did you make of Carlos at centerback --  
JAMES O'CONNOR: I mean, I think again, he hasn't played a lot of football.  Last week he came into the game and last week -- I thought himself -- did a good job tonight.  Good performance and good control in there and he's a presence in there.   
 Q.  There's going to be a lot of focus on Sacha and the goal, but tracking back, covering a lot of the wide plays --  
JAMES O'CONNOR: Yeah, did a fantastic job defensively.  I'm really pleased with us.  We have a lot of history here and I have huge respect for the Red Bull organization.  I'm very proud of all the players.   
 Q.  You've balanced coming back into the league -- with a veteran like Sacha, you can trust him?  
JAMES O'CONNOR: We have an understanding.  He's very intelligent and understands the game.  For him to play the way he did -- for them to attack and to finish --   
 Q.  Lamine Sane (ph) helped spark that goal.  What does he bring to this team, and also, how intentional are you about managing his minutes early in the season?  
JAMES O'CONNOR: Yeah, look, I think preseason, played a lot more minutes than we thought in Chicago, so we want to make sure we look after him.   
 Q.  Are you expecting to have --  
JAMES O'CONNOR: Yeah, again, I think for all the players, it's a next man up mentality.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT