ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 9, 2018
Deandra Dottin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Deandra, at the halfway stage, 106 on the board.  What was the mood like in the camp at that point by the halfway stage?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, the mood was the same as if the first two batters, openers were going up to bat.  It was no pressure, and we weren't worried at all.  So once we had kept the support going and turn on the girls, we knew we would actually put a decent total on the board, that we could actually defend having a slow start.
Q. Would you have preferred to bat first or bowl first on this wicket?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, I don't think it would have mattered at the end because you've still got to get the job done, but having three games played today, you know, I think batting first was the good choice in the end.
Q. You've had some outstanding moments at the international level.  How do you rate this one here tonight, your bowling especially?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, I rate this one as one of the top performances I've had.  Most of the performances I've had in the past were with the bat, but coming through with the ball is very tremendous.
Q. Deandra, you've been promoted up the order to open.  Many people probably expected you to make a splash in this tournament with the bat, and here you are making a statement with the ball.  What sort of preparation has gone into your bowling?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, the preparation is not only with the bowling, it's all around, fitness, bowling, batting, catching, fielding.  But that's the good thing about being an all-rounder, when you don't pick up in one area, you can pick up in the next.  I didn't pick up with the bat, so I knew that being one of the main bowlers on the West Indies women's team, I have to, like, come through with the ball for us to take away the victory tonight.
Q. Deandra, why was the decision made for you to open the batting?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: I can't really say at the moment, but -- I can't really say at the moment.
Q. It's a secret?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: No, it's not a secret, but I guess it's just to get off to -- to utilise the six overs wisely, as in gain a quick start.
Q. When you were bowling, you actually seemed like you were really bending your back and you were bowling quickly on the slowest that the pitch has been all day.  You looked like you were in a hurry to actually clean it up.  What was going through your head at that point?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, what was going through my head was just to pick up wickets.  After having, as I said before, having a slow start and having a low total on the board, the main thing was to pick up wickets, so I just wanted to pick up quick wickets.
Q. Was it also maybe a little bit of a shock, you're the holders of the trophy, here on the first night, there was a lot of, I guess, expectation built up.  Was it almost a little bit of a kick up the backside when you did have that low total?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: No, it wasn't.  I know that the fans and everyone are expecting a lot for us, being the defending champions, so I don't think it was nothing like that.
Q. But did it spur you on?  Do you think it gave you extra impetus to really close out that game quickly?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, for me I used it as motivation to get the job done.
Q. You said some fitness work has gone in.  Stafanie also mentioned that you worked on the fitness.  In that fitness department what has changed in the last amount of time?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, we've been working a lot on sprinting and moving fast, running between the wickets and stuff, our turns and those quick steps.  But for me, I've been putting in a lot of extra work, doing a lot of running and a lot more sprints.
Q. So do you think that has an effect in your bowling, considering recently it's been your batting that's taken the show, now your bowling has shown up today?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, I think it's having a big input on my bowling, as well.
Q. Tell us about that dance step after the fifth wicket.
DEANDRA DOTTIN: That's just a crazy dance that we all made up off of a song called "Level Up."
Q. By who is that?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: I think Ciara sings it.
Q. In terms of this innings, how special was it in terms of the Women's World Cup and really getting a victory to kick start your title defense?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: To be honest, it was very special.  Knowing as a team you always want to kick off with a win in a tournament so that the momentum can go forward into the next game.  So I think it was very exceptional of the team, how we go forward and defended a total low score like we had.
Q. Any concerns there with the batting and how you guys played?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: No, there are not any concerns.
Q. Do you think that this performance sends a message towards other teams in the tournament that the defending champions are actually here to win it?  Even though they made a low total, they managed to bowl Bangladesh for their lowest total.
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, I think from the first exhibition game against England we also sent a message early, as well.
Q. Do you think playing under the lights in the last match, probably 8:00 at night, heading into midnight, is the preferred timing for you guys to play?  Are you comfortable playing under lights, or would you prefer to play the earlier matches?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, we've been working under the lights, as well, beyond these hours that we actually have to play.  So we are quite comfortable with the situation at the moment.
Q. Looking at the 11, it seems settled, but how is the bench strength?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, our bench strength, it's strong.  It's strong.  Well, I don't want to say that, but yeah, our bench strength is strong.
Q. Playing at home and you're defending champions, playing at home here, how do you guys view it as a group, as an advantage or a pressure situation that you have to perform in front of a home crowd?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, as a team we look at it as an advantage versus a pressure situation.
Q. What do you think about like everything has worked out well, but what do you think about having to play last on a pitch that has already been used for 80 overs, which is not something that would probably happen in men's cricket?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, thinking about it, I don't think it's a good thing, because like any day we still have to play the cricket, so we just made the best of the conditions in whatever state we are in.
Q. Can you just talk us through what it was like being back here in Providence playing in front of the crowd and the atmosphere out there tonight?  You certainly seemed to be enjoying it.
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Yeah, it was -- I think it's fabulous playing in front of the crowd with the showcase that we have put on with the ball and the fielding and stuff.  It was great.  Just want to thank almighty God for giving us the strength and the health to go there and get the job done, and we want to thank all the fans who came out and supported, as well.
Q. You scored the first century in the World T20 in 2010 and the fastest.  You have got two centuries at T20.  Do you have a special goal for this tournament?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, yeah, I do have a special goal.  Scoring more centuries, as well.  I have two more coming for sure.
Q. Two more coming for this tournament?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Yes, please.
Q. Good luck.
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Thank you.
Q. I'm sure you would like to -- I'm sure after tonight's performance, you would win to continue at Providence, but heading across now to St. Lucia.  Having played there, what do you think is key to doing well on that wicket there in St. Lucia?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: Well, we haven't played in St. Lucia for a while, but knowing the pitch is a big difference from the Providence pitch, so I think we'll go well there, as well.
Q. The concerts that were happening before the game, I think there were a few fans in the team.  Did you get a chance to meet the performers and talk to them or anything?
DEANDRA DOTTIN: I didn't get a chance because I had an interview, then I went to ice bath and straight over here, so I didn't get a chance to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT