U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 1994
Dave Stockton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE STOCKTON:  Obviously, I am playing well last three  tournaments; 51 under par for 10 rounds.  They have  been -- it has been good playing.  Atlanta, the first of  the stretch I shot a 63; that propelled me on and played  very well and went to Nashville and promptly birdied 11  of the first 15 holes.  I played in the first round on  Friday, shot 62.  And learned a little bit playing with  Trevino on Sunday.  He outprepared me on Sunday and had a  better game plan for coming down to the wire than I did,  and lost by a shot.  And i went to Michigan last week  treating it like any other week.  Obviously, it was a  major, but making my goal was to make sure that I  completed the tournament, and not just go out there and  play.  And Trevino made a comment about "it is not who  makes the most birdies, it is who can keep them." I was  bound and determined that I was going to finish the  tournament last week.  I shot -- I did shoot 71 the third  round which was, you know, semi-weather related; we had a  tough day.  I think Jim Dent was the only one to shoot 70  and nobody broke 70.  So, once I saw those scores, I  wasn't as unhappy as I would have been with the 71 that I  had shot.  But I went out Sunday playing with Albus who,  incidentally, is playing very, very well.  Any of you who  are picking people who are going to do well this week,  make sure Albus' name is somewhere on your list.  He just  played really well.  Ronnie and I made no mistakes, kept  the ball where I had to.  Didn't take any undo chances  since I had such a big lead.  And, basically, after 14  holes, we were all-- after 12 holes, we were basically  checking on Junior to see how he was doing in Hartford  because we kind of felt our tournament was over.  It has been a great three weeks.  After  Atlanta, they ran a statistic last year.  They called me  Mr. August because I had had a hot streek both at Salt  Lake City and Seattle where I had a whole bunch of under  par similar to these last three weeks now.  But I am on  THE top of my game.  It is a help to have Ronnie --  second tournament he has caddied for me this year; first  one this summer and he has found some of the things I am  doing wrong.  When I am not far under you think I am not  doing much wrong but the putting is very, very good and I  am going to have to get my longer game ready for here  because this will be the longest course we will play all  year.  

DAVE STOCKTON:  I don't really remember any great rounds.  Pinehurst, always, the greens to me were very slow.  Slower than I like.  I think one reason I played better  in the summer is I am good in hot weather.  That is going  to happen here, I am sure.  The greens normally are not  that fast here and they are going to be fast which should  play to my strength.  Before I say anything further, obviously  those of you that have been out on the golf course, this  is the finest condition I have ever seen Pinehurst,  number 2, by far.  Fairways are wider than I would expect  the USGA to are normally set up for us.  But the length  is going to be there which is not something we normally  have in the normal senior tournaments.  You have given  the wilder drivers a better chance to hit the fairway.  You are still going to have to be a good iron player  because these greens are so unforgiving and I think these  are going to be some surfaces to putt on.  They are going  to be fast if we stop having rain.  


Q.  Would you talk a little bit about this golf  course and what do you think of it you said the greens  used to be slow, but otherwise just-- this golf course  has so much tradition and that kind of thing. . .  

DAVE STOCKTON:  It is obviously going to rank in anybody's top  10.  I think this is a great golf course.  I have--  honestly I have a hard time remembering the holes.  They are similar to me.  I got dog leg  left and right.  I have become acquainted with a lot of  trees as wide as open as some of these holes look, I have  been out in most of the trees on most of the holes, so  this thing used to beat me over the head.  Actually, when  I come here to play, I'd play here and go to the country  club in North Carolina and go fishing just so I would  have some sense of not being too upset with myself.  This golf course is a really good test of  golf and it is going to take a good ball striker.  You  can't luck out and play well around here.  I think we  don't play many golf courses that have the old style  greens like this that, you know, the chipping-- and  chipping is going to play an important part in this  tournament because you can't hit all the greens.  Maybe  some of the guys can, but I am not planning on it.  I'd  like to, but I know I am going to miss some.  It is just  a classic golf course.  I think this is a beautiful venue  for the Senior U.S. Open.  Hats off to them.  Cherry  Hills last year was marvelous.  Saucon Valley the year  before was great.  Especially the first 36, it was  great.  Then I hear now they have added Riviera in 1988;  Congressional in between there somewhere.  They are on a  streak of going to courses that I like to play anyway.  I  don't know about the rest of the guys.  


Q.  How much has the rain slowed down the greens?  

DAVE STOCKTON:  I came in yesterday afternoon, late, because I  had an outing in Chicago on Monday.  I thought the greens  yesterday were very slow.  I did not putt on them very  much - not that the USGA would ever speed the greens up  between Tuesday and the following Sunday.  My cleats  still go in the ground, so I know they haven't got them  the way they want them yet.  But I was surprised that  after the rain last night, the greens were much faster  this morning so the mowers were obviously lowered over  the night.  I thought the putting surfaces today were  closer to speed that I would like to see them.  They were  really slow yesterday afternoon - by USGA standards.  I  suspect-- like I am saying, this golf course is in  phenomenal condition.  It really is.  This is the  shortest rough I have ever seen for a U.S. Open - senior  U.S. Open.  Between the last two that I have played at  Cherry Hills and Saucon Valley, but it is also the type  that is wirey.  The ball is going to sink if you get in  it.  But they have given us ample driving room.  I hope  you don't get anymore rain.  I wouldn't care if the  greens got hard because I want to be able to get the ball  so I can get there in two.  It is short here; pray it  stops.  We are hitting irons we don't normally hit.  I  started out in the second hole and hit a good drive and  had to hit a 3-iron to it and two holes later I am  hitting a 4-wood trying to get on the fourth hole for my  second shot.  There is a lot of long par fours in this  golf course.  


Q.  You were mentioning Albus as one of the  favorites.  Could you mention a few others?  

DAVE STOCKTON:  I think it is pretty obvious.  I think Trevino  is at the top of his game.  I think Raymond is looking  for his right now and I suspect he'd find it.  Raymond  doesn't stay away from the top very long.  I think Weiskopf, he can fix or figure  out his putting as good as he strikes the golf ball; has  got to be, you know, one of the favorites although he did  not look good putting the ball.  I talked to him here  this morning.  He has worked really hard yesterday and  changed some things.  Trevino evidently tried to help him  with the same thing.  I asked him what he told him and it  was the same similar thing I would, so he should be a  factor.  Albus who I previously mentioned.  And a  dark horse would be Dent.  I thought Dent-- I have played  with him in the last two weeks.  He is playing very well;  through away some shots which is sometimes his  characteristics and I was kind of chewing him out a  little bit because he hit three or four really loose  shots playing with me on Sunday at the TPC, and he agreed  with me what I said to him.  And he should be another one  that could be a factor.  I look for a long hitter having  an advantage here because of the length of the golf  course, but you are obviously still going to have to putt  your ball well.  It will be interesting to see the World  Series of golf next year when we have our Grand Slam- or  whatever they call it-- Phil could tell you -- Senior  Slam?  I am new to that.  They didn't have it the first  year.  Trevino, Raymond and I winning the first three  legs of our four majors; it is going-- that is going to  be an interesting tournament.  I am looking forward to  participating in that.  

DAVE STOCKTON:  Thank you.  Appreciate it.   


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT