SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2007
Dave Stockton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE STOCKTON:  There was a lot of anxiety with being the Ryder Cup captain.  But other than that when we were leaving the hotel we had two buses and going to the final dinner and we were realizing that we had two buses, one for each team, and we were only two guys shy of filling the first one.  And Woosie picks up Corey Pavin and says, "Hell, we're not that big, we can fit in one seat."  And they got on the bus.  And there was a lot of good things.  In defeat they were a lot better than we were.  We had got used to winning, I guess.   
  
  Q.  What did it mean for you to be the captain of the winning team?   
 DAVE STOCKTON:  It meant a great deal.  It was much easier I think to be the captain over here than it is over there.  I think it's somewhat of an advantage.  I didn't treat Kiawah as an advantage, just because I figured that it would favor the Europeans over us.  They didn't seem to agree with it, but I thought it did.  But in hindsight looking back nobody can say who carried us, nobody, it was just a total team effort.   
  
  Q.  The conditions today.  Talk about the conditions out there today.   
 DAVE STOCKTON:  It's kind of out of the direction I expected.  It's a little bit stronger than we got that last couple days in the Ryder Cup, but this is the direction that it blows.  I was kind of smiling Monday and Tuesday realizing the practice rounds weren't doing anybody any good because the wind didn't come from that direction before.  But it just played really difficult.   
 Personally myself I started out on 2 and I was worried about not carrying the bunker to the left and then shot it out to the right.  I mean I had, it was a hell of an 8.  In fact, I wasn't sure I hadn't reached double digits.  Yeah, it was, God, man, it was, the wind, you can't get settled.   
 Like 17 I hit it perfect.  I had 178 yards and I hit 5-wood, which I can hit 210, and I knocked it about six feet.  And I almost 3-putted from six feet.  I was so excited to hit such a good shot in there.   
 They're playing tough and there are going to be some high numbers.  But I will say one thing, they set this thing up really fair.  Pin position, I don't think, you know, they moved the tees up a mile on the holes affected.  There's not one that you go out there and go, why in the heck did they do that.  So I got to hand it to them.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT