HONDA CLASSIC
March 19, 2021
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 6-under par, 64, six birdies, eagle.  What happened at 4 and 6 with the bogeys?
 STEWART CINK:   I don't know.  I guess I remembered where I was playing on those two holes and I was asleep the rest of the round.  No, it was a solid round.  I did really exactly what you need to do, I was, so I was solid with my executing and Reagan and I we had a good game plan all day and then of course the big kicker is the a lot of putts go in the hole and you have a really score but it was a lot of fun.
 Q. You played yesterday afternoon.  How different was the golf course playing when you got out there this morning?
 STEWART CINK:   It was still kind of breezy but not as much as yesterday but the biggest difference was that there was just a little bit of moisture in the grass and the ball just wasn't getting away.  Yesterday just felt like the ball was just trying to like -- the greens were shedding balls all day.  Today it just felt like balls were kind of staying on the green and you had that little extra confidence hitting your approach shots, even out of the rough where you could kind of plan on the ball will stop and it just, it felt like an easier day scoring, I played better, but it just felt like the course was more reasonable today than it was yesterday.  This course is always hard.
 Q. You mentioned your son Reagan obviously he was on the bag when you won at Napa.  Obviously he's caddied for you before but now you guys got this relationship, not only as a father and son but as a caddie.  How has that worked out and how has it transitioned to kind of where you guys are now?
 STEWART CINK:   Well, it's -- we have -- both of us are kind of dangerously nerdy about golf, I think, and we both think about our shots and the way to approach holes in very similar way, which is it could be good or bad, but we definitely game plan a lot, we do more of that than I've ever done with any caddie and we kind of have a little bit more advance planning.  And it's led to less in the moment decision making, which is kind of nice.  So it's taken some of the stress off me and maybe conserving a little energy too.  But it's just mainly a blast having my son out there right beside me, thinking the way I'm thinking, confirming everything I'm thinking and when the shots come off just right it's honestly something I never thought I would be experienced, but I am.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT