THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2009
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Stewart Cink, five birdies, one bogey on the day. Solid round for you?   
 STEWART CINK: It was. It was a good round. Especially OF putting. I putted great the first nine. I think I had ten putts. No. These greens are so smooth. Once you get a few online and they go in, you start to feel you can make it from anywhere. That's how I felt.  
  
  Q. Exceptional conditions on this course. Little water yesterday. You got to play in the Skins game yesterday. Difference between today and yesterday in terms of the golf course condition?   
 STEWART CINK: The condition of the course itself isn't that much different. But the rain yesterday made it quite a bit more difficult. Today felt quite a bit easier even though the wind was up at times. It was still a pretty good day to play around here.   
 The greens are holding all right. They're just so smooth.   
  
  Q. Luke Donald goes out early, 8 under par, 64. Key to scoring out here, especially when the wind comes up?  
 STEWART CINK: You have to be below the hole. In order to position the ball below the hole, you have to hit the fairway. You don't usually talk about this course being a really demanding driving course. But if you miss the fairways here, you have no chance of putting the ball in position on the greens. That's the key to scoring low.   
  
  Q. Taking a look at the rest of the week, weather is supposed to dry out this week and get a little bit warmer. Is that better conditions for you, or will the course become fast and firm for you?   
 STEWART CINK: The course playing fast and firm makes it a little more difficult, but I don't expect it to be crazy fast and firm.   
 The warmer temperatures will make course play a little bit easier. We'll probably see some more birdies out here. We'll be back to the low scoring we're used to out here.   
  
  Q. Is there a lot of low scoring to be had out there?   
 STEWART CINK: Yeah. The greens are so smooth out here. You get a few putts online early, you just feel like you can make it from anywhere. Just put your ball on the green and start to take a run at everything.   
  
  Q. Did you see the course becoming more difficult as the round went on?   
 STEWART CINK: Not really. The wind was very consistent out there today. It was blowing at times, but it was pretty easy to figure out. Wasn't blowing hard enough to really affect your shots a whole lot. Gave you something to play with and a cushion if you needed it.   
 It really didn't change much. The course held the same characteristics pretty much from start to finish.   
  
  Q. Luke with 64. How many more of those scores will we have over the weekend?   
 STEWART CINK: There will be a couple more, especially as it gets warmer. Ball travels a little further. And you can play to the green out of the rough most of the time this year. It's a tough golf course to shoot really low on, but if you're hitting the ball on the fairways, you can control it coming into the greens and give yourself some left to putt. It can happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT