WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2009
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It wasn't pretty early. But that was a pretty cool ending?  
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, I tell you what, I don't think we made three birdies all day long. But other than the first two, I don't think we made any other birdies for like 10 holes. No one could do anything right. We weren't playing really bad. We just weren't doing anything spectacular.   
 And then Ross birdied 13 and he won 14. I bogeyed it. And then a couple bad putts on 15. And then I birdied the last three in dramatic fashion there, holing out of the bunker. I wish it would have been for the final and not the consolation.  
  
  Q. I hear you. It's been close here for you in this tournament, and you've got to be excited how you're playing right now, looking forward to just getting into the spring really right now for your golf game?  
 STEWART CINK: Yeah. One great thing about this tournament is it really puts you under pressure from the very first shot. And you really get to see how your mind and body respond to the pressure early in the season going into big tournaments like Doral and the Masters. And there's a lot of big tournaments coming up, so I think it's good to use as a springboard. And I did last year, and I'm going to do it this year too.  
  
  Q. You mentioned earlier that I don't know what it is about match play but it makes me play every shot like it's the last shot I have and that helps. Hopefully that will carry over into the stroke play events later on this year?  
 STEWART CINK: I hope so. Every time we play this I always say the same thing, and I never carry it over to stroke play. But this time I'm going to make an even more of an effort to and it's something about the finality of every shot in match play, you just have to be right there, you can't let one by or your opponent is going to run you over.  
  
  Q. I know it's not the final, but how different is the feeling from last year to this year?  
 STEWART CINK: Well, I guess at the moment I feel better because I ended up winning this one. But still with getting into the finals last year and having a chance there, even though Tiger pretty much bulldozed me, it was still probably a little bit sweeter.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT