DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2008
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell me how excited you're starting to get about this Ryder Cup.   
 STEWART CINK: I've been excited about it. Actually I'd like to really play well going into it, and I haven't been playing that well lately. But today I found a little something and felt pretty good on the golf course for once. When you have a couple good holes, good swings, good putts, make some birdies in a row, you start really getting excited about it. When I'm playing with guys like Ben Curtis who's on my team and Kenny Perry who had a hot round going early, it gets the juices flowing.   
  
  Q. I was going to ask you about that. When you get to play with some of the guys that are your teammates in the early rounds of the playoffs, do you guys talk Ryder Cup when you're out on the golf course?  
 STEWART CINK: We don't really talk much about Ryder Cup golf, we talk a little bit more about other things that go on at the Ryder Cup like what the wives do. Ben has never been in one, and his wife is a little nervous about what to do. So I was telling him definitely she shouldn't be nervous. But stuff like that. We talk about just kind of what to expect more than who's going to play with who and what kind of formats we're going to play in.   
  
  Q. I remember earlier in the year you said that your wife said something to you, you can't be afraid to just run naked around the 18th green. Is she going to tell you to do the same thing at the Ryder Cup? Are you going to get a couple teammates to get naked with you out on the golf course?  
 STEWART CINK: If they do, it's going to be by their own doing, not because I'm trying to convince anybody. I am not trying to encourage any nakedness. But for me, sometimes I need to free it up a little bit like that. Freeing it up can mean a lot of different things, I guess.   
  
  Q. What's the coolest thing to you right now as we're going towards the Ryder Cup?   
 STEWART CINK: I think the coolest thing is that our whole team is playing a whole lot of golf right now right before the Ryder Cup. In the past we've had a lot of time off before the Ryder Cup and we had some rusty players. This year everybody is going to be playing.   
 Hopefully everybody is playing well, but it probably won't be the case that everybody is as hot as a firecracker, but at least everyone will be well tuned.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT