WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2008
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about your match.   
 STEWART CINK:  What do you want to know?   
  
  Q.  Just again, observations of it.   
 STEWART CINK:  Okay.  I played pretty awful, actually, today.  I hit it all over the place.  I was shocked, actually, after the first couple rounds, where I really played solidly.  Today I just really had no rhythm out there, off the tee, especially.  Mainly just my driver.  I hit my irons great.  I putted very well.  I was scrappy.  And luckily for me today was match play.  I made a lot of birdies.   
 Sometimes when a player is doing that, you're hitting it all over the place and recovering well and making a few putts here and there that are very timely, it's demoralizing to your opponent, and I think that's what happened.   
  
  Q.  Was there a key hole out there or a key stretch that maybe you found some of your game?   
 STEWART CINK:  Well, no, all day I struggled off the tee.  I just struggled.  And all day I hit my iron shots really, really well.  I can't explain that, but the stretch of holes from 6 -- today 5, but the whole tournament, 6 through 11 and 12, 13, the middle part of the round has been like really good for me.  I've won probably half the holes I've played in that stretch this week.   
 Today was no different.  I won a lot of holes in there.  Made a lot of putts when I had an opportunity to win holes.  And I was fortunate I had good timing today with my putter because there were some open doors out there that I went right through.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel good going into tomorrow because you pulled out a match where you were scrappy, or are you feeling a little iffy because you didn't play as well?   
 STEWART CINK:  Right now I'm feeling a little bit of both.  But I've got a little work to do out there on the driving range to figure out what in the world happened in my head today.  I'll be back for tomorrow.  I don't think there's anything wrong, anything broken, I just think my confidence and my rhythm just got shaken a little bit today.   
  
  Q.  You've never been matched with Angel, have you?   
 STEWART CINK:  I might have been teamed with him at a Presidents Cup where it was team play, but I'm really not sure.  I can't remember.   
  
  Q.  He made six birdies on the front nine, so he's playing well.   
 STEWART CINK:  Well, he always plays well.  When you get this deep in the tournament you are going to have no chumps playing in this tournament.   
  
  Q.  And you've been this deep in this tournament a couple of years ago?   
 STEWART CINK:  I have, uh-huh.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT