WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2008
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You've played a lot of match play.  Does that help you at this point?   
 STEWART CINK:  Well, any time you get to play against a world-class player like Padraig, it helps.  We played together last year in the second round here in the exact same match.  I was up and then I piddled one away on 17 and had to halve the hole.  Yeah, you get better.  He definitely doesn't go away and he's a very skilled player and I have a lot of respect for him.   
  
  Q.  Now you'll face another stalwart, Colin Montgomerie, in the next round, and you guys faced each other back in 2004.  What are your thoughts on Colin?   
 STEWART CINK:  Well, again, he's battle tested.  He's a veteran.  He's not going to give me anything.  I'd like to think I won't give him anything, either.  He's going to be a lot of fun.  These matches are always interesting, intriguing and down to the wire.   
  
  Q.  Nip and tuck all day out there.  Mr. Harrington just wouldn't go away.  That Irish guy has got some fight in him?   
 STEWART CINK:  He does.  He always fights back.  He never lets himself get down.  He never feels like he's out of it, and he never is.  He's got a solid game, and he shows it the way he just hangs in there.   
  
  Q.  Tell me about how you played out there today.  Were you happy with all the shots that you hit?   
 STEWART CINK:  Well, no, not at all.  I definitely played better yesterday, but today I did come up with some good shots when I needed them, but today I think our match was characterized more by mistakes than it was by heroics.  Both of us I think wished we could have a few of our shots over again.  We made some birdies, but then again, we made some bogeys and there was a couple times where we just gave the holes away.  As you know, on 17, I gave that hole away.  It's inexcusable, and I need to try to eliminate those mistakes tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Maybe that would be a good rule change for match play, you get multi-mulligans.   
 STEWART CINK:  Do-overs, yeah.  I think it would be a rule change for any kind of golf.   
  
  Q.  Tomorrow you're going to play Colin Montgomerie, potential Ryder Cup preview match-up.  Have you ever played Colin before?   
 STEWART CINK:  I've played him in this tournament.  It's been a few years, but he waxed me pretty good.  I think he was like 7-under through 11 holes or something, and I just laid down and he steamrolled me.  Hopefully tomorrow I'll have a little bit better experience than that.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT