ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 16, 2017
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great opening round, tough conditions, let's start with that finishing birdie.  Is that just a perfect number?  You almost knocked that in.
STEWART CINK: Yeah, it was a perfect number on a hole like that, a long par-4, to hit the fairway is a real bonus and then a pretty short iron downwind and, yeah, I knocked it really close for a almost no-brainer.
Q. Obviously you talked a lot about the rough this week, you kept it in the fairway off the tee.  Is that the first step around here to just get comfortable and feel like, hey, there's a good round in front of me?
STEWART CINK: Yeah, the rough is really difficult out there.  There's a lot of room in the fairways to hit it, but the rough is tough.  It's definitely a ball striker's golf course.  Especially this morning, the first half of the day was just really cold and a lot of wind.  Ball isn't going anywhere.  It was a lot of golf course out there.  So you kind of just fight through those holes and then take advantage of some of the downwind holes if you can and you can see the scores really reflect that.
Q. Do you like this style?  Is this the kind of golf course or setup that it's like a hang around style of golf tournament?
STEWART CINK: I do, because really this is as much of a measure of attitude as anything else.  You have to keep yourself in a positive frame of mind, because you're going to have bogeys.  You're going to have balls plug in bunkers, going to have bad lies, you just got to accept that stuff before you even get out there and go through that kind of mentality.
Q. Can you give us an example of how the ball isn't going anywhere.  Are there any examples that stunned you out there?
STEWART CINK: Not really stunned me, they because we expect it more than you guys, because we're used to it.  Well, like just an example was the 17th hole.  I played it my 8th hole today.  That was after I had already warmed up some, but it's playing, if I get it right here, it's playing about 210 and last week at Tampa I was hitting a 6-iron 210.  But today I hit 3-iron on that hole and I still don't think I could have got it hole high.  I missed the green in the bunker.  It's a three club difference when it is that cold and that windy and you got all these layers on.  I shed two layers, but I still got layers on.  It's just, it takes a lot of feel and experience and a lot of math to get it right and it's just a challenge.  It's just another challenge.  There's a lot of challenges out here.
Q. How are the greens?
STEWART CINK: They're some of the best greens I've ever seen.  Perfect.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT