THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2007
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Did you think you'd find yourself sitting here today?   
 STEWART CINK:  You know, I never thought I wouldn't find myself here, because the 2-over par I shot Thursday might have been the round this week that I was the most proud of.  I was all over the lot.  I got up-and-down all day long. I played with Phil, and he shot the best round of the day.  It made me feel even worse.   
 It was a decent start considering how bad I actually played.  I knew if I had that kind of gut-check in me, I could pull something decent out.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 STEWART CINK:  Yeah, a round like that here on Sunday, with a little bit of pressure and a little bit of nerves out there, some of these shots coming down the stretch, it can only do you good for memory's sake, when you're getting over a shot and you're feeling vulnerable in the future, I'll think about the shots I hit today and how I pulled them off. It makes it seem easier when you've done it before.   
  
  Q.  How about the course today?   
 STEWART CINK:  The golf course I think was just spot-on perfect, the way it was set up and the changes.  I can't imagine really them improving it any more than it is.  The green speeds were good, the rough height is manageable and playable.  Yet you're seeing that the scoring is not out of control out there.  We saw some wind on the first day and some high scores, and then we saw some birdies made on the weekend when the wind laid down.  And I think that's what tournament golf ought to be like.   
  
  Q.  You're feeling like your own self.  You feel like you're almost ready to get back special win again?   
 STEWART CINK:  Yeah, I guess so. It's hard to say what winning feels like beforehand because you never really know what to expect until it happens to you.   
 I'm hitting shots that I'm looking at, that I'm looking for, that is.  I think that's the thing I like about my golf game right now is that I'm producing the shots that I'm trying to produce.  While I'm hitting the odd, crooked one or not getting up-and-down here and there when I'd like to, I'm getting a lot closer and a lot better.  Mentally I'm in a better place than I was a short time ago.   
  
  Q.  Are you surprised you were able to leap frog so many golfers this afternoon.  A lot of good scores out there?   
 STEWART CINK:  A lot of good scores.  I was a little surprised.  I saw myself on the leaderboard at 6-under par and I think I was in fourth place.  Yeah, I was a little surprised I was that high being 6-under par. But when I thought back about the holes I'd played and thought about some of the pins and some of the shots, there's some tucked pins out there.  If you're in the fairway all day you can attack some of them.  If you're in the rough you can forget about it.   
 It's Sunday at THE PLAYERS and it's not an easy place to make a lot of birdies, and coming down the stretch you better get ready for the roller coaster ride, because emotionally it really hits you about No. 16.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT