VERIZON HERITAGE
April 12, 2007
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART CINK:  It's blowing, especially the last few holes, 16, 17 and 18 are just bears.  The guys this afternoon are going to have their hands full with this.   
  
  Q.  You're a Georgia Tech boy, you've played a lot of lowcountry golf.  You feel at home here, don't you?   
 STEWART CINK:  I really do.  I've been playing down here in Hilton Head Island I guess since I was about a freshman in college.  We had a big tournament down here every year and just always felt good, always liked the way the courses set up, the trees, everything.  It's just a real homey place.  It's a real relaxing place, especially after Augusta.   
  
  Q.  What's the key for you the rest of the week?   
 STEWART CINK:  I think the key for me is, as always, going to be to maintain a real sense of purpose out there and not get lackadaisical at all and stay with the mindset of aggression and activeness, but a real sense of purpose because I know I can play well here, I know I can play well against all the players.  The field is pretty strong, but I know I've done it before and I don't see why I can't do it again.   
  
  Q.  Just a couple general comments about the round, the highs.  Obviously there weren't too many lows, but just a few general comments.   
 STEWART CINK:  Well, I think today the theme for my round was very solid, just solid golf tee to green, the kind of golf you really need to play around Hilton Head and Harbour Town on a day like this when you've got some breezes and some -- not only just breezes but some finicky swirling breezes out there amongst the trees.  I hit a lot of solid shots, a lot of middles of the greens, took advantage of the par 5s, and all in all it was a very good round, and I was pretty proud of it.   
  
  Q.  You would have taken those in the wind, seeing as you're going to be in this about this time tomorrow?   
 STEWART CINK:  Actually, no.  I think the forecast for tomorrow is quite a bit different wind, actually, almost 180 degrees different.  I think today we're going to take this experience and just flush it right down the commode.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT