WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 10, 2006
Stewart Cink
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 STEWART CINK: We had a great week. Walking off the last green, we were saying,  at least we know we could have won. We  didn't play our best for sure and we were sort of lurking around there at the  end.   
 But I think we learned a lot about  each other and who knows, maybe make a good team down the road in another  tournament somewhere.  
  J.J. HENRY: Yeah, no question, yesterday to get in  position, we were 2-under on the front nine for a while. Again, coming up the last hole, we felt like  we didn't play great, but we still were kind of right in there with about four  or five holes to play. It is kind of  bittersweet, this being the end of the year, this being the final event for  both Stewart and I. I think we can take a lot from this week. We enjoy playing with each other and you  know, we didn't win, but I think we represented well and I think we'll take a  lot of positives from this week.   
  
  Q.  Did you get a sense early on that it was -- first of all, it was getting  nasty out there again, on 1, you had a good opportunity and the approach on 2,  I don't know where the ball mark was, did you get a sense it wasn't going to  be?   
 J.J. HENRY: Not really.  We knew it was going to be another tough day and it was soft out  there. We just wanted to hang in  there. We said starting the day if we  could get to 17, we thought that would be the number.   
  STEWART CINK: I think the opposite is true. We actually felt like it was going to be a  real positive day because we saw so many teams up above start out getting some  bogeys. We made a bogey as well on No. 3  but then made a couple birdies in a row and got back to 13-under after eight  holes. We feel really good because we  are right in the mix, but I don't think we birdied another hole. We just made a bunch of pars. The rest of the holes, we just parred. You know, we had to make some birdies. I had a short putt I missed out there, and it  sort of hurt the momentum. But it was  fun. We like competing and we're  friends, our wives are friends, and just had a good time this week. It's been a really good, memorable  experience.   
    
  Q.  It kind of seems -- of course it's the same for everyone, regaining momentum  after the delay, how difficult is that in any circumstance?   
 J.J. HENRY: We came out and made two birdies. We birdied 6 and 7 and at that point we were  probably within a couple shots of the lead.  We hit some shots. We just, you  know, some decent shots coming in, we made 11 straight pars to finish out. Unfortunately coming from behind, you're not  going to -- it's one thing if you're  leading the tournament, we played pretty solid but unfortunately we just make  any birdies.  
 STEWART CINK: A couple missed fairways on the back nine  kept us from being aggressive. Couldn't  really play right at the pins, same with the par 4, too. It was just a taste of, you know, little  change here and there. We hit the  fairways on these holes, be more aggressive and we're looking at 10-footers for  birdie instead of trying to get up-and-down for pars. We're running out of holes at that point.  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT