WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 8, 2006
Stewart Cink
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Well, talk about your day.   
 J.J. HENRY:  Well it was a day where we got off to a pretty good start, 1-under through four, hitting fairways, greens and just never seemed to get the momentum going.  Hit some good shots and then just could not capitalise on the putts.  We hit a couple of bad drives and it cost us.   
 In these conditions, we're going to make a couple bogeys, we just didn't tie it in with enough birdies today unfortunately.  But we're having a great time.  I think obviously now in the position we're in, tomorrow is a big day, just have to go out and make as many birdies as we can.  We all know this format, if you can play well in this format, you can pass a lot of people.   
 Again, I think we're enjoying what we're doing.  It just wasn't our day.  But at the same time, I think we're pretty close and we're hit something good shots.  We just cannot quite capitalise on the opportunity.   
  
  Q.  When you made the bogey on 12 and on the back nine yesterday you guys got a nice little run going, in these conditions, when you feel it starts to slip, how hard is it to stop that proverbial snowball?   
 STEWART CINK:  Well it definitely is a little harder to right the ship when it's blowing hard out there.  We did not make many putts on the front nine.  I don't think either of us felt like -- I think we probably started pressing a little bit.  We did get a birdie there on 15, but to finish the way we did, you know, making two bogeys on the last two holes.   
 It just was not that good of a day overall.  I feel like we shot about as bad as we could have shot and that's really not what you want to be saying at the end of the day.   
  
  Q.  Obviously this isn't the position either of you wanted to be in.  In this format, is the wind expected to say this way for the next couple of days, you can't be thinking you're necessarily out of it.   
 STEWART CINK:  No, especially best-ball coming up.  We feel like if we can go out there and play the way we expect to play, there's some makeable birdies on the golf course.  Especially if we can get it on the holes that the other guy doesn't birdie, we'll be moving up the leaderboard.  I think on Sunday, with the format back to this one, you saw the spread a lot more than yesterday.   
 J.J. HENRY:  And the position we're in, if it was real easy and everybody was shooting lights out, if you go out and play good, you can pass a lot of teams but that's what we're going to try to do the next few days.   
  
  Q.  Are you still getting used to foursomes?   
 J.J. HENRY:  Yeah, it's still golf.  You're only playing I guess nine of the holes technically, but you know, it was tough to get the ball close to the holes when we did.  Unfortunately we just couldn't capitalise.  Like we said there are some difficult holes and unfortunately we made a couple of bogeys on the back nine.  It is what it is and we're having a good time.  I feel like we're playing pretty good, it just was not our day.  So we'll try to make the best of it tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT