WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2015
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Played very well today.
STEWART CINK:   I played good really in all phases of game.   The funny thing is that's the way I've been playing.   All phases feel like I've been on.   I just tripped myself up or stalled or done something to sabotage my rounds and today I did a good job keeping the pedal down and I finished well even though the 3-putt on 17 I'm not going to really cry about that tonight.

Q.   That was an 8-iron there.   Were you pumped up, 178 there?
STEWART CINK:   The way the ball is going out here.   It's fairly warm, very little breeze.   Hit the ball pretty far.   Got a lot of speed out there.   Just have to kind of plan for it and adjust some of the distances you get and the ball is going quite a bit further than it did in the practice round because of adrenaline and a couple other factors.   It's fun to see the ball fly when it's hit solid like that.

Q.   A lot of players struggled with these greens especially when it was down-grain, very fast.
STEWART CINK:   They're fast but I think players in our group anyway the down-grain putts look so fast that we ended up being defensive and left those putts short. 
I was leaving putts short all day today because I thought they look so shiny going down-grain that you're almost defensive and end up with two, three feet left or coming back or short the hole. 
It's just -- the grain on these greens has really matured a lot since they installed it here the year before last.   It's quite bermuda-like out there.

Q.   Well played.   Good luck tomorrow.
STEWART CINK:   Thank you.

Q.   Want to just talk about your round today and what was going well?
STEWART CINK:   Yeah.   Well, it was a great day to play out there, it was warm, perfect temperature and very little breeze so you could be aggressive.   You know, the course is in nice shape and I got off to a good start with a birdie on 2 and just I felt the confidence kind of building there early on and it just never really seemed to go away.   It was a lot of fun.   Today was the kind of day you really love being a professional golfer.

Q.   Stewart, you've always played well on this course.   What is it about Quail Hollow that really I guess either fits your eye or whatever you seem to like about it?
STEWART CINK:   I think what it is about this course, this course fits my style of thinking well.   I think there's places out there on this course that are definite caution lights and I've always been pretty good at recognizing those and knowing myself and when to steer away from the hole, and there's also places where you need to be aggressive and you can certainly be aggressive, holes like 14 and 8 and the par-5s. 
It's a good mix of that kind of golf and that mix just fits my style really well and I feel comfortable playing that kind golf.

Q.   As far as the afternoon, talked about the perfect conditions, lot of times with this course you'll see if you go out in the morning lot of times there's chances to really score low, maybe as opposed to the afternoon if it gets really hot and the wind picks up. 
That obviously wasn't the case today.   What do you think is going to happen I guess from here on out as far as is it going to be more beneficial to play in the morning come tomorrow or no?
STEWART CINK:   I think the new greens level that out somewhat.   There's not quite as much dry-out factor.   There's not quite as much of a change from soft to firm in the afternoon.   The greens start off pretty firm in the morning and they retain their firmness pretty much all the way through the day.   They probably get a little more bounce towards the latter part of the day but another thing is this grass, this time of year this bermuda is growing so it's actually slowing down some what during the day. 
Then, on the other hand, this time of year is really getting shiny and slick and dicey and oily and so you don't have a fear factor quite as much in the afternoon.   The speed of the greens isn't really out of control and it's just a uniform -- it's such a good grass to play on.   Uniform condition all day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT