THE INTERNATIONAL
August 5, 2005
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Stewart, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  You started on 10.  Had a great finish on the Front 9.
STEWART CINK:  Yeah, I did.  I finished with momentum.  I made seven pars in a row.  There were some pretty good par holes out there actually, 10 and 11.  The wind was blowing early.  It was playing quite differently than usual here.

Seven pars to start out, it's not the end of the world.  Then birdied 17.  Made a lot of birdies and a few bogeys, too, sprinkled in there.  To mix them up is a lot better than to just shoot pars.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Started out on 10.  It was kind of cool this morning.  Corey was talking about it, how tough it was.
STEWART CINK:  The 10th hole, it's only 530 yards, par 4.  With the wind blowing into you, about 58 degrees, it's not the hole you really want to get started on.  I was able to save a par there.  I hit it in the rough, but had a good lie.  I went at the green with a wood.  Hit it in the bunker, but made a good save.  Sometimes here, even though you want to get those points, you have to really protect against going the other direction.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Getting a double bogey?
STEWART CINK:  Yeah.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Does a start like this change how you look at the rest of the tournament or approach it with this format?  Do you just kind of keep going like you've been going?
STEWART CINK:  The only thing it changes, I came out here having not played too well recently.  In fact, my last start, I missed the cut at the British Open.  My confidence has been a little bit suffering.

Today was maybe the round I needed to sort of get me back in the right direction.  I didn't play great.  It's not like I was spectacular out there, but I hit a lot of good shots, made some good putts, a few good saves here and there.

If anything changes, I might just be a little more confident and a little freer, be able to free it up a little bit the rest of the way.
Q.  After seeing all the rain yesterday, were you surprised how the course held up today?
STEWART CINK:  It held up fine.  It was wet tee to green, but it's in good shape.  The greens rolled quick, as usual, here.  The moisture in the grass hasn't affected the green speed.

I'd say, to answer your question, I'm not surprised.  Here, you know, it can rain.  With the low humidity, it dries out fairly quickly.  This afternoon I would think it would be getting back to normal.
Q.  Do you think there will be low scores this afternoon?  Do you have any advantage playing early or disadvantage?
STEWART CINK:  I really think it will be a disadvantage at the end of the day.  The better scores will come this afternoon as the air warms up, ball starts to travel a little farther.  The mathematics becomes a lot easier.  It's a lot easier to take 10% off your yardage than it is 8%.
Q.  Is that because of the temperature?
STEWART CINK:  The temperature.  When you play early, you can't really count on that full 10%.  When it gets warm in the afternoon, you can count on a strict 10%.  You have to feel your way through the round early in the day.  This afternoon, everybody is going to be 10% all the way.
Q.  Laura Davies, getting ready for the US Open that was here, said the caddie would give here one number.  If she had a hundred yards, the caddie would say 90.  How do you work it?  Do you want to know where you are minus that?
STEWART CINK:  I'm the opposite of that.  I want to know exactly what it is raw yardage, then use the mathematics and equations and whatever it is to get it down.  I arrive at a number like she wants.  In my mind when I go to the shot, I'm thinking about one yardage only, forgetting about everything else.  That's the same thing I do at sea level.  The only thing different here is you take off the percentage.
Q.  You went to Georgia Tech.
STEWART CINK:  Between me and my caddie, there's two people doing it.  If we come up with a different answer, we just start over (laughter).  We do it until we arrive at the same number.
Q.  (No microphone.)
STEWART CINK:  Today, none.  We're pretty good.  We're used to that.  It's unusual for us to have to do it in a tournament.  I've played here every year I've been eligible, nine straight years, so I'm accustomed to it now.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Do you want to go through the birdies and bogeys real quick.
STEWART CINK:  17, I hit it in the front bunker on my second shot with a 6 iron, got up and down there.  Made about an 8 footer.

Then 18, I 3 putted from the swale.  Tough putt.

1, I stole one there.  I put myself in a really bad position.  I was about 60 yards out on my third shot in the sand, really bad shot to have, got it on the front edge of the green, made about a 50 footer.

(Inaudible) took an unplayable.  Had to chip it back to the fairway basically.  Made about a 15 footer there for bogey.  Those are the most important putts of the week.  Made that one there.

On the 3rd hole, flew over the green, short sided myself.  Had very little room to work with there.  Missed about a 20 footer for par.

Hit it stiff on 4, 6 iron, about a foot.

6, I hit it stiff also with a wedge, about three feet.

7, 8 iron to about 15 feet.

8, I wedged it to about five feet.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.
STEWART CINK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT