WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2005
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEWART CINK:  It's a race.
Q.  Did you get a little food poisoning yesterday?
STEWART CINK:  I don't know what it was, but on Tuesday night.  I think they're suspecting how powerful I can become out here, and they tried to poison me.
Q.  They don't want you to become part of the Big 4 or something?
STEWART CINK:  They don't want me to become part of the Big 4.

I've been kind of sick.  I've had the flu for a week, and I'm starting to get over that, and just had a little stomach issue, it was no big deal.  I didn't feel that bad the next day.
Q.  Talk about your match today with Fred.
STEWART CINK:  Well, we both played well.  It was the kind of match that you'd want to have in this tournament.  The fans loved it, I'm sure, the few that were out there.  Fred was up on me all day; he won the first two holes and we stayed pretty much 1 up, 2 up until 13, and I birdied that hole and he bogeyed a hole, so we got back to even.

And then I birdied 16 to go 1 up.  At that stage, when you're even and you take the lead with only two holes to play, it's pretty tough to    it's pretty tough for someone to come back on you.  I hit the ball pretty well coming in.
Q.  How did you do on 9, par 3?
STEWART CINK:  I hit a 6 iron about 15 feet.
Q.  Is it still wet out there on that tee area?
STEWART CINK:  It is, but that hole is not any wetter than any of the other ones that I can tell.  They're all pretty wet, the course overall.

That was funny seeing that tee box out there.  I knew they were going to do that when I walked on the greens this morning.  It's unfortunate that it has to be in this condition, but that's one solution.  They're creative.
Q.  Do you think the course is drying out, so it will be better tomorrow?
STEWART CINK:  Oh, yeah, it will be better.  It's going to continue to get better all week.  It's not going to be perfect.  It will get playable more and more and there will be less taking drops.  I only took one drop all day, so it could be a lot worse.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT