THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 25, 2014
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   On his 18th hole, got Stewart Cink in the clubhouse with a 63.   How were you able to make such a big move on Saturday?
STEWART CINK:   Well, my putter was hot early, and I was striking the ball pretty well.   This course has not really been the best for me, but today I just felt very comfortable, a lot of shots, and the ball was definitely finding the hole, and it continued all the way through the round which is really nice.

Q.   We've seen some red numbers out there.   At what point in your round did you think you could really push it to five, six, seven deep where you ended up?
STEWART CINK:   Well, I got under par early five through the first six, so at that point I knew there was no question we could go fairly low, but it's hard to keep the accelerator going and keep pressing.   Naturally you kind of go into neutral a little bit, and I did, and I parred a lot of holes there for a while. 
Made a great par save on 4 and missed the fairway, and the par save kind of kicked me in, and I felt like I got a little bit of renewed excitement and reeled off three more birdies in a row and a good par save I just hit on 9.

Q.   And how much momentum did‑‑ you opened last week with a 64 in Las Vegas.   I know you didn't finish the tournament how you wanted, but did that carry over at all to this week, any positives you took from that?
STEWART CINK:   Well, I think that shooting low rounds is sort of‑‑ it's an intangible out here.   It really doesn't show up in the statistics much, but if you can get that feeling, get the juices flowing and continue to post a low round and play all the way through the finishing hole, you get that in your mind where you can do it, then it almost unlocks a lot of confidence, and I felt like last week had a couple of low rounds in Vegas, and I wasn't alone by any stretch of the imagination, but it feels good just to be able to get that flowing where you know you can do it again and again and again, and it just leads to good things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT