THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 17, 2004
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEWART CINK:  We were 1-down with about four holes to play and we caught back up and got a half point.  I think that was big.
Q.  How did Chris play in his first Ryder Cup experience?
STEWART CINK:  He played well.  He's a horse to be ridden this week.  He hit the ball in play all day, unlike me.  I was all over the place a little bit out there.  But he was excited and just like a little boy.
Q.  You couldn't imagine this scenario at being down 3 1/2 to a half?
STEWART CINK:  I remember the scenario from the last Ryder Cup.  It's exactly the same.  I think we were tied going into singles last time so I think we have to look back to that one and think that this is a hole, that it's not a very deep hole.

It's a hole that we can dig ourselves out of with that much golf left to play.
Q.  Colin was saying that he thinks their win was worth more than a point.  What do you make of that?
STEWART CINK:  Did they put more than a point on the score board for every win up there?  I don't think so.  If that's the case then maybe our half point was worth more than a point.  If he wants to feel like that, then he can, but I don't think I agree with that at all.
Q.  If there is momentum on their side, do you think you maybe stemmed it a little bit and can you change it in the afternoon?
STEWART CINK:  We can definitely stem it.  They definitely have momentum and we need to get this crowd going.  Some early birdies by our team this afternoon will get this U.S. crowd, get them going really loudly and we really need that because it's hard to play when the crowd is rooting against us.
Q.  But it was pretty quiet most of the morning, wasn't it?
STEWART CINK:  Well, they didn't have a lot to cheer for and their hands were in their pockets as cold as it was.
Q.  What was the pressure level like?
STEWART CINK:  It's about the highest pressure there is in golf.  You're nervous and you have to slow it down a little bit.  We are used pressure situations.  We deal with them every week.  It's really no different than being in a major championship in contention.  But it just lasts all day.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT