FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 30, 2004
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Tell us about 17.
STEWART CINK:  Well, it was a tough pin placement today.  17 is a tough hole, and with the wind blowing it's difficult to get it into the fairway.  It'll be tough for the guys coming down the stretch.  I don't know how close a lot of them will get, but I don't think -- 17 and 18 are two hard finishing holes and people aren't going to get too close.
Q.  What was your thought process today going into this round?  Was it just do what you can to get to 2nd?
STEWART CINK:  Yeah, it's sort of shooting for second place because David was so far ahead, I really didn't think he was going to give much up.  He's gone out there and played pretty solid today, too.
Q.  How disappointing was it to be that close to the running for second?  It's still a good chunk of change.
STEWART CINK:  It is.  I feel like I let some go out there, especially on the back nine, because I didn't make any birdies after No. 9.  But it's a tough day to play.  We've got a lot of wind and the pins are in some difficult places.  I can't be too disappointed.  I'd like to look at my round as a whole instead of just as a finish.
Q.  Relieved that you got it all in?
STEWART CINK:  Relieved that we're finished and we can go on home now.  There's about four shots today that I'd really like to have over and I could have really shot low.
Q.  The course itself, as you've heard, is going to be changed.  What is your thought about that?  Do you think it's something that needs to be done?
STEWART CINK:  Well, I think changing over to the new grass on the greens, the Bermuda, will be good.  I don't think any changes necessarily need to be made architecturally, although it sounds like there's some in the plans.  I'm sure they'll do a good job.  There's no way to tell whether it'll be something that I wish would have happened or not until I see the final product.

I like the course.  I think Bermuda is a great idea.
Q.  Looking ahead to the Open, are you looking forward to playing Shinnecock?
STEWART CINK:  I've never played there, so I'm just kind of determined to bring my own game there.

This week I played pretty good U.S. Open style golf.  I hit a lot of good fairways, I hit a lot of good shaped shots, the kind of shots you're going to need there at that course from what I hear.  So I think my game is in good shape and I can contend there.
Q.  Who should we look for this year at the top of the board?  Who's got the best realistic shot at the Open this year?
STEWART CINK:  Well, the Open is kind of a strange bird because with all the dry fairways and the hard greens and difficult rough, it sometimes produces an unusual type order on the leaderboard.  It's hard to say, but anybody who is driving the ball really straight and in control of their game -- David Toms looks like a great pick right now because he's doing it this week.
Q.  And he's also your buddy?
STEWART CINK:  He's also my buddy.
Q.  What do you think of David's game this week?
STEWART CINK:  I think it's been pretty impressive.  The first round was his best round of the week, I think, because he didn't shoot his lowest but the conditions were the most difficult back then, and then to come out and really take advantage of softer greens on Friday and shoot 63.  I think that was just fantastic.  For him to battle what he's been going through this year with the injury and missing some cuts, I think it shows a lot about the person and the golfer.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT