FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 28, 2004
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEWART CINK:  I played okay, just didn't take advantage of much.  I had a lot of tap-in pars, a lot of birdie putts that were in the makeable range, not easy putts, but in the makeable range that I didn't convert.  Maybe tomorrow I will.
Q.  How about the difference in the golf course from yesterday to today?
STEWART CINK:  It was very different because today there was no wind hardly, and really the only thing you had to contend with was the rain occasionally, but the greens were holding pretty well and smooth.

Well, they were smooth yesterday, but they were holding well.  The golf course is really just scorable today.  The ball is still rolling in the fairway, so it's a good combination.
Q.  We're also doing a story on the putters.  Is the longer putter more of a hype thing, just sensible for taller guys or what?
STEWART CINK:  Well, it's a sensible thing for taller guys but it's a sensible thing for all golfers.  I just think it's a good way to putt.  It's more stable.  If you've got confidence in it, you could putt with a plumber's wrench, if you want to.  Every individual is going to feel differently about different methods.
Q.  How long have you used that?
STEWART CINK:  I've used it for about a year and a half.
Q.  What was kind of the point where you said, I need to try this?
STEWART CINK:  I was just putting terrible, had no evidence.  It was the end of the year.  It was after the Ryder Cup and I really didn't have a whole lot riding on the rest of the year, two or three tournaments left, and my coach had been telling me for a long time, you're going to try it, so I decided to give it a try one week and haven't looked back since.
Q.  Was it love at first putt?
STEWART CINK:  No, I wouldn't say it was love at first putt because it took a little getting used to.

The second week I had a really good putting week, and then I've been ranked pretty high in the putting stats since.  It triggered something in my mind that kind of gave me a renewed confidence.
Q.  Do you think it's kind of ridiculous that some guys seem very bent out of shape over it?
STEWART CINK:  No, I don't at all, but until they change the rule, it's legal.  I think they might change it and outlaw it, but I've got plenty of short putters at home, too.  Now I've got lots of confidence where I can go back and play with any kind of putter and it'll be fine.  The confidence doesn't solely come from the length of the putter, it comes from a lot of other things I've been doing.
Q.  Were you disappointed at the -- (inaudible)?
STEWART CINK:  Disappointed, yeah, a little bit.
Q.  You're not actively advocating to your friends, try this, try this, or are you?
STEWART CINK:  To a few, yeah.  There's a few guys out on Tour that I have mentioned they might want to try it.  Some of them do, some of them don't, and a few guys back home, too.  People have a problem moving on the putts, they do a lot of raising up.  I tell them it's a good way to feel them down because if you raise up with that putter your anchor goes away and the putter is out of control.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT