JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2014
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   66 here in the second round for Stewart, and on a day when you're playing with the group that everyone is making birdies.   How do you sort of feed off that momentum and keep it going? 
STEWART CINK:   Well, when the hole is swallowing golf balls in the whole group, it just makes it look that much easier to make putts, so you feel confident when you're in the fairway.   You don't have to hit it three feet.   You don't have to fire at every flag because you feel confident from 15, 20 feet, and that's the way our group was all day today.   We just had some putts go in.   We had some shots stuffed in there close, and it was really fun.

Q.   How pleased are you with your performance?
STEWART CINK:   Well, my score has been good.   I didn't like the way I drove that ball that much today.   Hitting the ball off the tee I wasn't that great.   I really did a good job, just stayed in the moment and made some good saves and just getting what I could out of the round.   I'd much rather have this kind of round than the kind of round where you stripe it and don't make anything.

Q.   What does a start like this the first two days do for you knowing the Open Championship is next week?
STEWART CINK:   It's completely different, but any time you put up some decent numbers and just you see the ball go in the hole on the greens, it feels good for any kind of golf.   I've been playing some okay golf, not spectacular but pretty decent for the last few months, and I'm looking forward to continue that, maybe just polish off a few little mistakes. 
I knew it was going to be a fun group before we started the tournament when I got the pairing because I like playing with these two guys.   But also kind of expected a lot of birdies, and I'm glad I got to contribute to that. 

Q.   Kind of feed off each other a little bit?
STEWART CINK:   A little bit.   When you see the name Steve Stricker in your group here, you know there's going to be some good golf, some birdies and some good scoring, and then Jordan is just establishing his record, but obviously John Deere Classic agrees with his confidence. 
It was just a fun two days, and I think Jordan and I are tied right now.   We might play again tomorrow.   That would be fun.

Q.   What was working for you today?
STEWART CINK:   I think the best for me was I managed myself out there.   I didn't drive it that great.   This course is fairly easy by PGA TOUR standards if you drive it really well, and I didn't today.   I didn't set myself up for really being aggressive, but when I was in the fairway, I took advantage of it, and when I was off line or maybe gave myself a bad angle, I just did a good job with short game and putting, and my score indicated‑‑ I did a good job scoring, so I got a lot out of the round, which is a really good thing to feel.

Q.   Is it nice to be playing well going into maybe your favorite major?
STEWART CINK:   It's great to be playing well any time.   I consider this to be the major of the week, the John Deere Classic is the biggest tournament I'm playing in this week.   I know that.   So I'm not looking forward to too much next week.   I mean, this is a big task on its own right here, and I want to play well here, and then we'll start thinking about Hoylake and all that.   But right now I'm just happy to be in the clubhouse with some birdies and feeling good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT