THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2014
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   6‑under par after 54 holes.   You've played well this week on a difficult golf course, played well last week at a difficult golf course at Quail Hollow, the Wells Fargo Championship.   What has been trending positively in your game? 
STEWART CINK:   I don't know.   Every day it's something different, but at least there's something.   Today really I didn't play very well all day.   I scrapped around and made a few saves, holed out a shot on 7 for eagle, made a few up‑and‑downs.   But I just hung in there, and sometimes on a course like this, this course can make you feel like you're really sloppy out there because it's just so narrow and you really need to hit the fairways.   Coming into the greens from Bermuda rough, you just feel like you're playing a sloppy round of golf, and you might not really be. 

Q.   You said last week something very interesting, your last victory coming into the '09 Open Championship, and you said with this victory you get a five‑year exemption on the PGA TOUR, and that may have been the worst thing for you.   Why did you say that and what did you mean?
STEWART CINK:   Well, I was really just commenting on why so many players get a long exemption and then tend to go into a little bit of a slump.   I wasn't just indicating that's my problem, but it's part of the deal, I think, that you can rest a little bit when you have a long exemption out here because it's a great job and no one out here that I know wants to give up this job.   When you have a guaranteed position out here on the PGA TOUR for a long time, I think it can ease your dedication just a little bit.

Q.   So you lose the hunger?
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, you lose your hunger a little bit, and it just takes that tiny bit of edge off.   The players are so good that you don't have to slip far.

Q.   Do you feel like you have some of that hunger back?
STEWART CINK:   I don't have a choice anymore because this is my last year of being exempt.   I am hungry and I'm playing what feels like more like my back's against the wall type of golf.   I just feel like I'm a little bit more tenacious on the course, a little bit more‑‑ I'm dealing with distractions a little bit better.   It's coming together a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT