WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Stewart, you got it to 7‑under, bogey on the par 5, 15th, birdied the 18th, getting momentum to go into the weekend. 
STEWART CINK:   The birdie I don't think was that big but the two shots I hit were big because I was feeling a little deregulated after I stuck it in the bush off the 15 tee, and it took me a while to calm myself down and get back into where I felt right, and I just was determined on 18 not to hit the fairway but make a good swing.   There is a big difference between those two, and I made a good swing, accomplished my goal there and accomplished my goal on the second shot, and the ball went in the hole and it was a good shot.   So the score is sometimes not as relevant as what you do to get to the score. 

Q.   In talking with Martin Kaymer and his long quest of getting back to his form, you have been doing that, too, it seems.   Has your patience been tested at all trying to get back?
STEWART CINK:   Your patience gets tested every day you tee it up, no matter if you're on the PGA TOUR or just a 10‑handicap busting it every day at home.   Your patience is tested. 
I've obviously been through a rough patch here, relative to my career, the last three or four years haven't been very fun.   It's given me a good source of perspective and it's‑‑ I've been focused at working really hard, trying to improve myself in the areas that I felt like were weak, which were quite a few, to be honest, a lot of weak areas.   I feel like I've got a lot of good golf in me right now, but I'm still carrying around some of the scars a little bit.   We all carry around scars, but I'm trying to wade my way through it and hit good shots and have fun.   I'm having a great time right now, the way I'm hitting the ball, it's a lot of fun.   This course can be really tough and punishing in places but you got to roll with 'em and keep going. 

Q.   I thought you had some tangible evidence of how you're playing; you're playing well this week.   What does that do for you? 
STEWART CINK:   Just reinforces that my perspective is ‑‑ I don't want to feel like I'm a player who won a Major and hasn't played well since.   I want to feel like a player who has the ability to win a Major, you know?   Because that's what I am.   I've had a good career on the PGA TOUR and it's still going.   I feel like I have a lot to offer and to offer myself, too, so I'm choosing to have a good time on my little come back here.   I feel confident in the way I'm playing.   There are great days and some days that aren't that great, but I'm still having a great time. 

Q.   2‑under par, 70 in round two.   Nice birdie there at the final hole.   Talk about that. 
STEWART CINK:   The last hole was a real pleasure.   Today I hit three beautiful shots there.   After some shaky shots the three holes before that.   It was good for me to get up on the tee and just accomplish my goal, to make a good swing and be aggressive and play that with sort of a care‑free‑type attitude.   It meant a lot to me finishing up to build confidence. 

Q.   Pretty interesting leaderboard:   Major winners, winners of some big tournaments and younger guys.   How do you assess your chances? 
STEWART CINK:   I think this leaderboard looks like a PGA TOUR leaderboard; the way it's been all year.   You've had some of the well‑known players doing some good things but you've had some guys that we don't know who they are yet, you know, making a name for themselves, too, and looks like that's happening again this week. 
As far as myself, I'm comfortable on this golf course and I like the way I'm playing.   I gotta stay out of my own way.   The biggest trick for everybody there at the top and really for everybody that's making the cut this week.   You gotta stay out of your own way and hit the shots and add 'em up and see what happens. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Stewart.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT