DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 7, 1998
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEWART CINK:   Well, today was a difficult day, I'm sure everyone knows that.  The wind was blowing, and the greens are hard and fast.  And I think anything under par had to be satisfying today, and I was one under, so I'll take another one tomorrow, and let everybody shoot at it.  I think it's supposed to blow again or more.


Q.  They obviously made some changes to the course to make it easier, but when the wind blows this course is as hard as any you play?

STEWART CINK:   It's up there.  The changes they made really didn't make that much difference, except for the drive on 18.  Everywhere else, if you miss, you're hitting in the sand.  And these guys can play out of the sand.  The wind, it makes it hard.  And this course -- it's hard enough without wind, and when the wind blows like that you've got a pretty tough task on your hands.


Q.  Stewart, you made some big putts, the par  putts at the end on 16, I believe.  Bogey on 18.

STEWART CINK:   We waited there on the 18th hole for a while, and it's not a very good tee shot to wait on, thinking about everything.  And I got up there and I was just going to swing aggressively and make a good, hard swing with my driver, and I came over the top a little bit and hit a pull, and when you do that it's wet, and the work just starts, because then I had 240 to the pin on my third shot with dropping.  And with that wind blowing in my face, it was hit it solid or drop it again.  Luckily I hit a better 3-wood, hit about 13 feet from the hole.  Told my caddy I had an easier par-putt than if I had hit the fairway.


Q.  On 9 when you hit the birdie putt, did that pump you up for the back nine?

STEWART CINK:   I don't get that pumped up when I'm playing.  But it was definitely a springboard.  I had been 8 holes without making any birdies and I made some good shots, and then the 9th hole, 30-footer drops, and suddenly I have confidence.


Q.  Stewart, it's not surprising on some of the tougher situations you tend to evolve pretty nicely, U.S. Open courses, conditions are tough here, you like it when par is a good score?

STEWART CINK:   I do.  I think I have a  better chance when -- what's leading, 8-under?  Well, a lot of tournaments 18 under is leading by now.  I think I have a better chance with these tight conditions, because it takes a lot of patience, and you can't ride that roller coaster out here emotionally on a course like this.


Q.  The crowds pump you up even though they come out here because of the Tiger mania, but the fact that golf is just booming now all the way down to the kids helping everybody?

STEWART CINK:   I love it, I think it's great that the galleries are out, even if they're not watching me, I hear a lot of who is that guy and where did he come from?  Is he an amateur?  I hear a lot of stuff like that.  Obviously these people don't follow that much golf.  I still hear those things.  And that's fine with me.  The galleries don't pump me up necessarily, they pump up the purses.  And that's nice.


Q.  Are you going to go out and practice before you go home tonight?

STEWART CINK:   Unless they have some night light golf balls out there, no, I wasn't planning on practicing.  The wind kind of tires me out.  I've got to do some things, I've got to go to the gym.  The days are only so long. 


Q.  But you obviously have a different mindset when you go out tomorrow, normally you'd have to shoot four or five under.  But tomorrow, just making pars and trying to stay out of trouble?

STEWART CINK:   I'm still going to go out and play aggressive, and go out and do my best.  But I'm not going to play safe anymore than I normally would. But yeah, on this type of course you don't have to go out there and if you don't make 3 birdies in the first five holes you don't have to be kicking yourself.


Q.  Do you have any trouble shaking off that bogey on 1?

STEWART CINK:   No, I know I've played that hole like an idiot.  I've played it even par, and I bogeyed it today, that was terrible.  But if you start having trouble shaking those kind of things off, that's going to get you in trouble.  And I just treated it like a bogey on any other hole and I was like, okay, let's get started here, on No. 2.  Those typically don't bother me too much.  I make those dumb mistakes occasionally.


Q.  How did you bogey?

STEWART CINK:   I hit it right off the tee, just a little bit, almost in the fairway, but it landed in the bunker and rolled up in the lip about an inch  out of the bunker, I had no stance, I had to hack away.  And I hit it about a hundred yards in the rough, and then from the rough there straight downwind I had no chance stopping on the greens, it went over in the bunker, missed about a 6-footer for par.

STEWART CINK:   9 was 175 today, dead into the wind, I hit a 4-iron about 30 feet right of the hole and made a putt, which was, as we mentioned before, kick start for me.  14 was downwind, I hit a driver and wedge about six feet and putted there.  16 was dead against the wind and I hit a good drive there in the fairway, and I had 110, hit a full pitching wedge about 10 feet.


Q.  On Sunday you don't go head-to-head against anyone, you're playing the golf course, is there anymore excitement when one of the guys on the board is Tiger?

STEWART CINK:   No, I wouldn't say there is, not for us.  He represents one spot.  If he's ahead of you, then you're one spot worse, it doesn't matter who it is.  I don't think it enters into the mind of anybody out here. 


Q.  Will you set your goals for tomorrow, will you have a score in mind or how much under you think will win this tournament?

STEWART CINK:   Typically I probably would have a score in mind, if the course was playing easy, you know.  But since you don't really know what's going to happen with the winds and the greens and everything then I don't think that's the right way to approach it, I think you have to go out and stay present and focused and patient.  And if you make a few key putts, and if you play smart, then you're definitely going to be there at the end.


Q.  Stewart, do you feel like you're pretty good, closing things out?  You won last year, in this situation, you know how to go about whatever, do you feel confident about that?

STEWART CINK:   You know, tomorrow if I'm close at the end I'll be drawing on those Nike Tour wins and Hartford, I'll definitely be going back to those.  Just knowing that I've done it before helps me.  That's what they say about experience.  You just draw on your experiences before.  So I'll do that, and I feel like I've done it before, so I don't see why there's any reason why I can't do it again.


Q.  Your two tournaments, the Phoenix Open and  the Buick Invitational, your scoring average was about the same.  One you missed the cut and the other you finished 13th, what was the difference?

STEWART CINK:   Sorry, I don't quite follow the question.


Q.  Your scoring average was the same for those two tournaments or very similar, and one you finished 13, and one you missed the cut.  I was wondering what the difference was for the two?

STEWART CINK:   San Diego and Phoenix?


Q.  The Buick Invitational.

STEWART CINK:   I shot 9 under at the Buick Invitational and shot 1 over in Phoenix.


Q.  Okay.  They had on the scoring averages the same.

STEWART CINK:   They're wrong.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT