MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2013
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is that the best finish you've had in an event before coming to this one that you can remember?   
STEWART CINK:   There were probably a few Bell South Classics that I was better at.   I don't know.   
But it's good to have a good finish any time in the year, but the week before, the last tournament before a major, you know, it's good to have a little bit of confidence going into it.   
It's a completely different place.   It doesn't have a lot to do with the Masters, but it is good to play with some confidence here.   You need confidence.  
   
 Q.   And if I remember right, last year you had a good last round here.   Didn't you have a really good Sunday here last year?   
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, but I mean, I was in like the first group off on Sunday, so‑‑ I played well Sunday, but it didn't matter.  
   
 Q.   But the point is I know what your feelings have been playing here over the years and at least to come in after a Top 10 in the tournament before this and then having a decent Sunday here regardless of where you placed, the mindset of coming into here, is it as good as you've felt coming into this tournament in a while?   It's not really a factor, you just play?   
STEWART CINK:   I guess, I guess so.   But I think last year's final round has a lot less to do with anything than the good play in Houston.   And really it's more than just Houston, but the last month or two months have been pretty solid play.  
   
 Q.   Really?   For any particular reason?   
STEWART CINK:   A lot of the work that I've been doing with my new coach has started to feel a little bit more comfortable and become natural.   That's really about it.   I'm starting to get a little bit more comfortable with things I'm doing in my golf.   The ball seems to agree.  
   
 Q.   Now, I hope I'm right on this, next year unless you win or something from now, next year will be your last year coming to this from the British exemption, is that right?   
STEWART CINK:   Yes, that's right.  
   
 Q.   Does that make these any more special because the opportunities may not present again?   
STEWART CINK:   I don't think you can make the Masters any more special than it already is.   I mean, I hope to get play in the Masters for my whole life.  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
STEWART CINK:   You know, oneday I probably will stop playing in the Masters.   If that's next year, then that's too bad.   I won't look at it in any way‑‑ it's not going to be a farewell tour or anything like that.   I will definitely be planning on playing in more Masters after next year.  
   
 Q.   We all hope so.   
STEWART CINK:   There's a lot of ways to get in it.   I would be excited if my golf game got back to where I wanted it to be, and it feels like it's getting close.   But you know the Masters is one of those things that that will take care of.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT