WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2012
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Not the finish you were looking for but really some great play the last couple days to get yourself in contention here at Quail Hollow.   
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, thanks.   I was very pleased overall, and finishing like that is not what you want to do, of course, but they're tough holes and I missed a short putt on 18, which kind of stinks.   But looking at it as a whole, I think overall very pleased, and I probably would have taken 10‑under for two rounds before we teed off Thursday.   Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.   It's a good challenge and a good chance for me to get some feedback on what I'm doing.  
   
 Q.   You told me yesterday that you didn't see yesterday's 65 coming.   Did you see today's round and continued good play coming based on yesterday?   
STEWART CINK:   Well, I knew today was going to be a tough day for me because it's been a while since I was in that position, up near the lead after a day.   So I really had to go out with a clear game plan, and I did.   I went out and accomplished my game plan pretty well, stayed in the moment for the most part, hit a lot of good‑‑ actually I hit the ball better today than I did yesterday and made a few putts, but I made‑‑ I'll be honest, I made more than my fair share yesterday.   Today was a solid day with not a great ending, but overall pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about the prospects for two days to come here in Charlotte.   
STEWART CINK:   Well, I think, again, the challenges are going to stay there, but I'm looking forward to it.   It's been a while since I was in this kind of position, so it's always fun.   I miss it, and I'm happy to be back there playing on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   Not the finish you wanted, but the first 36 holes of golf have been pretty good for you overall?  
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, it's been very good.   I am a little disappointed in the finish, but they're tough holes.   Even though I missed a very short putt on the last hole, about a four‑foot putt, you're still not just devastated with making bogey on the last hole, on that hole.   It's a tough one.   
Overall, I'm very pleased, and I'm excited about what this weekend may hold.   It's going to be a good challenge and a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   It's been a while since you felt this good after 36 holes?  
STEWART CINK:   It's been since last year at Quail Hollow.   Yeah, it was very similar last year, and I love playing here.   This is a great golf course to play.   It definitely puts a premium on focus.   There's a lot of danger out there to sort of navigate through.   I don't know, it seems to heighten my level of awareness of what I'm doing out there, my game plan.  
   
 Q.   When you looked at going off late yesterday, early today, was it kind of good you went 65 yesterday and didn't really have a whole lot of time to think about the quick turnaround coming back this morning?  
STEWART CINK:   Well, you think about it a little bit no matter what.   I mean, I knew today was going to be a challenging day for me because it's been a while since I put up a 65 in the first round and had to come out here and back it up.   I was very pleased.   I backed it up really well.   If it weren't for that mediocre finish, I'd have another really solid round, really good round, after that one.   I'm proud of the way I went out there and stuck to my guns and got some things to happen and let some things happen.  
   
 Q.   Having been in this spot a year ago and now going into this weekend near the lead, you know what can happen on the weekend.   How do you prepare for the next 36?   
STEWART CINK:   Well, you don't really know until you see what the weather does because they're talking about some thunderstorms maybe, and if this place gets drenched, then it'll be a real‑‑ there will be fireworks around here for the weekend.   If it doesn't, if it stays dry, if it stays warm like this, then the golf course is going to only get tougher.   I remember from years past being in this position here that you don't have to go out there and shoot 65 both days on the weekend to move up.   You can just play solid rounds and pick off the par‑5s and let the other guys make the mistakes.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT