WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2012
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Where did this come from?   This is a pretty nice round today.   
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, it was a good round.   It wasn't a great round, far from perfect, but I had a few putts go in the hole and managed my misses pretty well, and I just tried to play it shot by shot and tried to keep myself from getting too emotionally involved with the round as it got going and as I got farther under par.   I think I would call it a successful day.   I wouldn't call it a superb round but it was a day where I went out and accomplished my goal of trying to stay in the moment and just trying to be myself out there.  
   
 Q.   What have you been working on that paid dividends today?   
STEWART CINK:   Well, I really didn't‑‑ nothing that went great today is anything I've been really working hard on.   I've been working really hard on my swing and trying to improve a few of my flaws.   They were still around out there today.   I didn't hit every fairway, I didn't hit some kind of average irons, but took advantage of my good shots.   The biggest thing today was some putts from like 10 to 20 feet were going in, and when you see a few of those go in, then the hole just starts to look bigger and bigger.  
   
 Q.   The greens started to get a little crustier during the afternoon.   Tomorrow you have a chance at fresh greens.   How much of an advantage is that?  
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, it is a little bit of an advantage.   The greens being bumpy actually helped me out today because‑‑ not that they're bumpy, they're just getting a little bit beat up in the afternoon with all these golfers.   But it served to really sort of keep me in the present.   I know all I can do is just get it rolling, and after that it may hit some bumps, may not.   A lot of my balls were rolling pretty smooth today, and the last bump they found was the hole, which was nice.  
   
 Q.   How much of a breath of fresh air is today's round after the kind of season you've been having so far?  
STEWART CINK:   It's good.   It's really good to shoot low rounds any time, but considering I haven't had very much success this year, just feels good to go out there and kind of piece it together and keep the momentum going for a whole round.   I wouldn't go so far as to say I'm back or make some kind of statement like that.   But it's still good to see something like this and give yourself a little bit of confidence.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT