MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2012
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a great comeback.   
STEWART CINK:   Well, I couldn't go anywhere but up.   No, today was a little bit more like it.   I got some putts to fall, which is good.   I think I shot my highest round of the Masters and my lowest round.   I don't think I've ever shot better than 69 here.   I've got it a couple times but never taken it really low here.   
   
 Q.   Is that just because that's how golf is, you don't know from one day to the next, or is there something serious going on in between?  
STEWART CINK:   I think today was just a little bit more committed.   I was determined to come out here today and at least salvage a little bit of a mindset and show myself that I could get it around here and play a committed round of golf.   Part of it is a little bit of golf, too.   I had some putts that went in the hole‑‑ I made a 50‑footer on 12, and I think my longest putt up until today was like 10 feet.   
   
 Q.   You've got to hit the irons‑‑  
STEWART CINK:   You do.   I hit some irons close today.   There's certain times out here‑‑ my experience around here is enough to know that you can't always go aiming at the flags just because you aren't making your 30‑footers.   Sometimes you just have to hit it 30 feet.   
   
 Q.   Well, you made that big par putt on 11, coming off back‑to‑back bogeys.   Sometimes those par putts can kind of generate those longer putts going in.   
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, that's for sure.   I made two bogeys after‑‑ I couldn't have dropped my ball in the fairway better on 10 or 9.   Perfect drives, and I made bogey on both holes.   Part of that is Augusta National.   But they were two pretty bad shots.   
Yeah, so I was‑‑ it could have gone a little bit the other way there, but I made a really good save, and then the birdie putt on 12 and another birdie putt on 13.   Today I played the kind of round that I think I'm‑‑ I think should be the kind of round I'm looking for every day.   It wasn't a special round but it was a solid round.  
   
 Q.   How was your swing?   
STEWART CINK:   Oh, it was good.   It wasn't great, but I still drove it great.   I drove it fantastic all week, really.   I'm very pleased with that.   The putting and the driving are two very, very important parts of the game.   The driving part of it was pretty nice this week.  
   
 Q.   Condition‑wise how did it play out there today, the setup?  
STEWART CINK:   It's drying out a little bit.   There's still‑‑ mud balls have been a big issue this week, and there's still some mud on some shots but not quite as much, and the greens have picked up a little bit of pace since yesterday again.   They're fast.   Yeah, they're very fast.  
   
 Q.   Do you leave here with a little bit of confidence after this round, trying to get back in the right mindset today?  
STEWART CINK:   Well, I mean, I think just after missing the last three cuts here, to make the cut and play four days is somewhat of a step in the right direction.   A good round, finishing on Sunday, even though I was in the first group out, is a step in the right direction.   I think I'm going to go play next week and then kind of look at the last‑‑ I've played five in a row, the last five tournaments as a whole and sort of analyze what I've been doing and move forward from there.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you said your mindset was frazzled.   Does today help that?  
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, like I said earlier in the week, any time you hit a good shot when you need to, especially when you're facing kind of an adverse, really difficult shot, a lot of those kind of shots out here, when you hit a real you good one and you swing the way you want to, it builds that emotional type of trust that you need.   That you can only learn by hitting those kind of shots.   You can't do that on the driving range.   
Today I hit a lot of those.   All week I hit a lot of those except for yesterday I didn't.   So yeah, continuing to build, and it's going to get there.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to Harbour Town next week?  
STEWART CINK:   Uh‑huh.   I've played it every year since 2000.  
   
 Q.   And that's when you recommitted to going down there or something because you hadn't‑‑  
STEWART CINK:   No, I just had never played it for various reasons.   My wife had to have surgery one year.   One year I decided not to because of the Masters and the Florida takeoff, and I don't remember my rookie year.   But once I decided to play it, I won it the first year, 2000, and then I won it again in 2004.   It's probably my favorite tournament on Tour now that Castle Pines is gone.   
   
 Q.   Was today's round sort of the first separation for next week?   Was that what you were trying to erase, that 81, to try and get yourself in the right mindset?  
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, you could say that.   Today was a good day to go out there and practice on some things that I've been working on hard, in my short game especially, with really not much motivation to go out and shoot a low score because even if I shot 65 today I wasn't going to move up a whole lot, I was so far back.   There's still things to be taken from a day like this, on a Masters Sunday on a golf course like this where it's just, like, so severe.   So that was my hope, to go out there and take good things out of the round and somewhat erase yesterday but really kind of salvage a little bit of confidence going into really the rest of the year.   
   
 Q.   Help me a little bit with‑‑ I don't want to pry‑‑  
STEWART CINK:   You can pry all you want.   I don't really have a lot to hide.  
   
 Q.   It was really good, you came out yesterday after the 81, most guys would be kicking it around, beating themselves up, and then you come out and shoot 69 today.   What was last night like just getting away from the golf course?   Guys like us, we would be‑‑  
STEWART CINK:   Yesterday was shameful and embarrassing, it really was, to come out and shoot that kind of a score in front of a lot of people that I know at a course I love so much.   I love playing this thing so much.   To shoot that score was a real‑‑ that was a tough one to take.   
   
 Q.   And then when you get away from it‑‑  
STEWART CINK:   So to go home and‑‑ I kind of explained things to my wife a little bit.   She asked me how I was doing and we talked a lot about it and tried to come up with a source of why I went awry.   I disappeared yesterday.   You really just kind of‑‑ it's hard to analyze one round, but there's things in my game that showed up yesterday, like I didn't make any putts yesterday, none, no putts.   And I'm just not saying that I missed a few.   I'm saying that I didn't make a putt.   Now, if I had putted great, I probably would have shot better than even par, but I didn't save anything.   I went home last night and really tried to figure out where I went wrong, and when I look back at it, I hit 10 fairways.   It's not like I drove it all over the place.   Usually when you shoot a round like this, you drive it all over the place.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT