WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2011
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just start off talking about your round and what went well today. 
 STEWART CINK: Well, I really drove the ball really well most of the day, and this course, that's just such a huge advantage when you drive it in the fairway. The fairways are pretty soft, and they're not very wide, but they do play as wide as they will ever play. 
 Today I put the ball in play a lot, and I was able to be aggressive coming into the greens. I had a big long eagle putt on 2, and you know, it could have been a lot lower, but overall it was a pleasing day.

 Q. What is it about this golf course? 
 STEWART CINK: I think it's just the kind of course that the players all love and respect because it does require everything. You have to be pretty accurate. It's long enough. You've got to be smart on some of these pin placements, and the greens can be really fast and tricky. It's just a good test all around in all facets of the game, and I think that's kind of the game that I bring to the table is sort of a well-rounded type of game. My game fits onto this course really well, and I feel confident here.

 Q. You were pleased with your score, but you think it could have been even lower a couple of shots?
 STEWART CINK: It could have been lower.

 Q. Which shots?
 STEWART CINK: Well, I bogeyed the last hole, so you always think you could have been one better. You know, I just had a couple mis-hits out there where I missed the green on a par-3. It's going to happen, but you really aren't too pleased about missing the green and making bogey on a par-3. And then I had a couple birdie chances that I let go that were in the 10- to 15-foot range that I didn't make. But I also made a few. 
 So overall, yeah, it could have been lower, but I'm still pretty pleased with today.

 Q. Course a little soft today?
 STEWART CINK: It was about like it was yesterday. It's soft but it's not overly wet. It's about as easy as this course is ever going to be. 

 Q. No matter what the conditions are like, does it ever feel like there were 65s and 66s out there as you're playing practice rounds?
 STEWART CINK: Definitely. I think it works more the other way around. I think you always feel like there's 65s and 66s and that's why you play your practice rounds, to figure out the best way to go about achieving those kind of scores, and then sometimes the conditions don't allow it. You see what I'm saying in it works the other way around. You're not out there just playing and then, whoa, this thing could yield a low score. You're always searching for ways to pick the course apart and take advantage of it, and sometimes it doesn't work out. Today it is working out and there's going to be a low score out there.

 Q. Looking ahead, are you sad to see the major championship season end? 
 STEWART CINK: I always am when I haven't won one yet. That's been every year of my career except for one. I just like the opportunity to try to get in contention again and maybe win another one. And at the PGA, you know, I don't really feel the pressure that, oh, it's the last chance of the year, but I do realize that after it you have to wait a lot longer than most. 

 Q. Do you feel differently going to, for example, Hazeltine than you do going to last year?
 STEWART CINK: Well, Hazeltine was a whole different animal for me because it was the first major after my win. But I had won one, yeah. I still think it was quite a bit different because it was just a lot more -- it was an active schedule for me that week, real active. I had a lot to do. 
 Going back next week, I've got also a lot to do, not that I have a lot planned. I've pretty much said no to everything, but just because it's in my home area I'll have a lot of things pop up and a lot of people calling, different things to juggle. It won't feel like a normal major for me, but then again, maybe that will -- maybe I'll be sort of able to hide away at home a little bit. Spending time with the boys -- it's the first week of school, too, so we'll have plenty to talk about and discuss, and maybe I'll have an easier time getting my mind off of it when I'm home.

 Q. Nine guys on the Ryder Cup haven't won a tournament since. Thoughts on that?
 STEWART CINK: I don't know if there's much to that really. I thought we had a pretty good Ryder Cup team, and -- I don't know. I think that's one of those coincidental things. I think it's like Americans haven't won majors in like the last 13 or 14 majors. I just think that's coincidental. It'll swing back the other way and it'll swing back our way and all that. Stuff like that evens out in this game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT