THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2011
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART CINK: This week has been full of tough conditions, but today, I've only seen this one time in my life, a tougher day, and that was in Muirfield at 2002, but this was almost indescribable how hard it was to play golf out there.

 Q. Talk about the 4th hole. Tom Watson hit driver-driver there. 
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, I could have hit driver-driver. Didn't have a good enough lie in the fairway to hit driver, but I hit a driver, 2-iron 20 yards short of the game, hit my 2-iron about 180, a club I normally hit 240, 245 in the States. That hole wasn't even into the wind. But I made a 4, and that's like a birdie.

 Q. Talk about Tom Watson today, 61 years of age, playing well again in the Open Championship. 
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, it's really remarkable and makes me wonder, where was he all those years? He won a dozen or so of these things, and then he comes back on the scene the year that he and I had the playoff. But I don't know what happened in between. It seems like he's just getting better with age. 

 Q. What was it like today?
 STEWART CINK: Well, I think it was -- the hardest part of the day was just keep your composure. It's impossible to hit -- for instance, like No. 8, I hit it in the middle of the fairway off the tee and had 200 yards to the flag. 200 yards normally is like a 5-iron shot, and it was as good as I could hit a 3-wood to get it to the hole and I hit it on the green. I felt like I made an eagle but I made only a par, so you're not getting the reward for well-struck shots. And poorly struck shoots are just blown off the map. You're getting a lot of negative feedback but you're not getting very much positive feedback. 
 So it's really tough to just stay composed out there.

 Q. How awful were the winds? 
 STEWART CINK: The wind was blowing very hard, but it wasn't any harder than it was on, say, Tuesday of this week. We played in some pretty tough wind. But when you couple that with the rain that fell, it was a pretty heavy downpour for an hour, hour and a half, and then it started to taper off a little bit. But the rain and the wind combined is what makes it dreadful out there to play in.

 Q. Did you have rain right in your face?
 STEWART CINK: All day long. The umbrella was pretty much useless sideways. As hard as it rained we didn't use the umbrella much because you had to hold the umbrella sideways and you end up wearing yourself out just trying to brace it. So you just put the waterproofs on and just get yourself some of these rain gloves and hopefully you can hold onto the club without losing any. 

 Q. Any situations where you were about to swing and it suddenly gets heavier and you back off?
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, there was a couple times, especially -- there was a lot of water dripping off different parts of your body. Off of the bill of my cap the water was flowing off and hitting the ball on the green, so I had to dry my hat off quite a bit. It all adds up to basically just trying to knock you out of your normal routine. It felt anything but normal. 
 So it's just really difficult to go out there and compete against guys when -- I don't know, it just feels like an uphill battle. But it does for everybody. It's just really tough to keep your composure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT