U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2011
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Padraig said it was about as easy as you're going to get with the setup the way it was this morning, do you agree with that?
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, the greens were receptive. They were still pretty firm, but the ball would stop. And, you know, with just a little bit of moisture in the grass makes a huge difference on a course like this. We had a little rain in the morning and it delayed the drying out process until probably about now. And if the wind keeps up -- we had it about as good as it's going to get. 

 Q. Do you like where you stand?
 STEWART CINK: I like being under par. I didn't play particularly well today. I scored well. I didn't hit very many greens, but when I did hit the greens, I made putts. It wasn't a U.S. Open style round at all, but I'll take under par.

 Q. What do you think about going into tomorrow's round based on how you played today?
 STEWART CINK: I think I've actually got a really good attitude, I think I can do better than I did today. I hit some poor shots that I'm not very happy about. The attitude will be -- the rest of the day trying to figure out something to go with tomorrow that is a little bit more reliable, and hit a few more targets and come at it tomorrow with a positive attitude. 

 Q. How did you like starting on 10?
 STEWART CINK: As I've been thinking about it for a day or so, definitely played that hole yesterday, and I wouldn't have normally played it. Because I played nine holes on Wednesday, and I played ten holes yesterday.
 They gave us a little break by moving the tee up. And it was raining when we got to the tee, we had to do a lot of the mathematical calculations. I was over there early to see the group in front of me hit. I saw one ball, Heath Slocum hit a nice shot and it came up in the water. I added a few yards to what I was playing. And hit it in close.

 Q. A different club?
 STEWART CINK: Not a different club, but I would go with a smooth 5-iron, and I decided to go full on and hit it full. It was a good decision. I hit it about three feet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT