THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 2, 2011
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What do you like about Columbus?
 STEWART CINK: You mean the town? I just like the town. It feels good. We're up here in Dublin, which is probably one of the nicer parts of town, and it's just a really nice area and a beautiful spot, really nice place.

 Q. Nice round. Afternoon not too many low scores. How was it possible and what do you think is working for you?
 STEWART CINK: Well, I don't know. I thought the course was going to yield something pretty low this afternoon because the greens were holding. They weren't scary fast, and it just felt like somebody might shoot 8- or 9-under today, and it didn't really happen. But sometimes it doesn't. 
 But the course is beautiful, and this afternoon was just -- you couldn't ask for better weather, absolutely ideal. A lot of fun out there. 
 I hit a lot of good iron shots today and made some -- my middle range birdie putts, the 10 to 15 footers, that are really key for your round. I had a good stretch of making some of those putts. No bogeys. Overall it was very stress-free and fun.

 Q. You set yourself up nicely for tomorrow morning. 
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, in the afternoon if there is a time at Muirfield when the greens might get a little rough and it might get a little dicey it's definitely going to be in the afternoon. But today that didn't happen. The greens held up great and tomorrow they'll be beautiful again, but they won't be a whole lot better than they were today. It'll just be another good day for low scoring conditions. 

 Q. How much would it mean to you to win this particular tournament?
 STEWART CINK: Well, they don't like for us to say it, but there are tiers that exist in tournaments, and the Memorial is right up there as far as one of the non-majors as one of the highest and well-respected events. With the field and the course and Nicklaus, his presence, it would mean everything. There's a lot of good winners of this tournament.

 Q. What did you think about the changes at 16?
 STEWART CINK: I liked the old 16th hole. I didn't really agree with Mr. Nicklaus when he said it was just a way to get from 15 to 17. I thought it was a pretty unique little par-3, but now it's a hole that -- I don't think it's quite as unique as it was. But it's certainly a little scarier on the tee, and if that's the goal, then mission accomplished. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT