WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2011
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Stewart, 65 today, nice playing. Comments on a great round.   
 STEWART CINK: Well, yeah, it was a good round out there, solid really all aspects of the game. I made some good putts, hit a couple nice drives until the end. But I definitely kept the pedal down today, which was a lot of fun. When you play well on this golf course, it's one of the most fun golf courses to play well on. The crowds out there are huge and they're really getting behind everybody, and it's just a blast out there.  
  
  Q. Are you going to get to a point where you're playing golf and not golf swing?  
 STEWART CINK: Am I getting to the point?   
  
  Q. Well, I'm not saying you're a finished product --  
 STEWART CINK: I will never say I'm getting to that point. I'm a big believer in the jinx. But yes, I understand what you're saying. I'm still -- I still have things I'm working on, but I like to think I'm focusing more on the good things in my swing and not the bad things in my swing, so instead of trying to address the bad stuff, I'm trying to really take advantage of the good stuff, and today I had a lot of good stuff. I picked up distance from yesterday, mainly because in the morning it was so cold when we started, but I just felt like I was compressing the ball and I had a lot of authority over the trajectory, and like a pitcher would have good command, I had that today.  
  
  Q. Is that swing stuff taking longer than you thought, or is that to be kind of expected, that it's going to take a little while to sink in?  
 STEWART CINK: It's taking longer than I wanted it to take, but I never really considered how long it might take, but it's the change of a golf swing that's been around for a long time. I knew it was going to take a while. Obviously I was hoping for results right away, but that's pretty unrealistic.  
  
  Q. On this course do you feel a little more pressure on the weekend to get off to a strong start?   
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, but there's holes out there that can bite you along the way. It's not just 16, 17 and 18. You just want to do the best you can every shot. If you do that, you're more likely to be rewarded on some of the earlier holes, and you've got to take advantage of the par-5s, which I really haven't done a great job of doing this week. I haven't birdied the par-5s on the back nine at all yet. I would like to try to hem that up a little bit. But yeah, getting off to a good start is always good just because it gives you confidence the rest of the day.  
  
  Q. What do you think about where you stand right now heading into the weekend?  
 STEWART CINK: I haven't really had a good look at the leaderboard. I just got finished. Any time you shoot a good score like 65 on a golf course like this with this field, it just gives you a huge boost in your confidence that you're doing the right stuff. That's what I'm the happiest about today. Whether I'm two, three, four shots back of the lead, I think Lucas was playing good right behind me, so that's immaterial at this point. I'm just happy that I had a good round and got some good results out of it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT