THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2010
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How are you spending the time?
 STEWART CINK: It's just like any other rain delay in the team room and hanging out, the wives are there, stories are being told and everybody is laughing and just trying to pass the time because this is no fun for everybody.

 Q. You've played in a number of Ryder Cups, can you tell us how the first tee experience compared to the other ones you've played?
 STEWART CINK: It was up there. It's fun to see the fans get out and get this excited about the game of golf. Today I think the rain put a little bit of a damper, no pun intended on the excitement. But it was still pretty boisterous on the tee and it was a good time. 

 Q. Give us your thoughts on the match so far, you are out there playing against Rory and Graeme for the Europeans?
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, we knew it was going to be a tough fight and I think they did, too. So far it's just been one of those typical Ryder Cup Matches, gone back and forth a little bit. The big story, the weather, even when play was still going on, the golf course was just really -- it was almost hard to call it a golf course.

 Q. Give an insight into how it was playing. 
 STEWART CINK: Well, the ball is going probably 15 per cent shorter distance, so you have to count that in. It's almost worthless to try to take a drop because the ball plugs on impact and you have to deal with that, and especially the rough. And then there's casual water standing on the greens. 
 It was a good thing for them to call play, because The Ryder Cup is too important of an event to have the integrity compromised.

 Q. You are out there playing with Matt Kuchar, how did that evolve?
 STEWART CINK: I asked for Matt. He and I have been friends for a long time. We have a lot in common and I love the way he plays. And so I'm honoured to be his partner for his first Ryder Cup match.

 Q. What sort of strengths does he have? 
 STEWART CINK: I think the strength of his game is that he doesn't really have any weaknesses. He's a consistent ball-striker and has an excellent and much-improved short game and good putter and a lot of confidence.

 Q. Ryder Cup obviously very different experience to anything else you play and people tell us it's the most pressure they ever feel even coming down the stretch of a major, what advice can you offer him?
 STEWART CINK: I didn't really have to offer him a whole lot. Being nervous and performing under pressure is one of the reasons that 24 players are on these two teams, they have done it a lot in the past and they perform well, and it's no different here. 
 You know, you feel nerves, it's a little bit different kind of pressure because there's more weight on your shoulders other than just your own score, but you have to go out there and just plow through the nerves and go out and get after it. 

 Q. What's going to be the key to getting turned around by the time we get out there and play this game?
 STEWART CINK: The teams are so evenly matched up, and the weather will play a hand in there, but I really think it will come down to a few putts here and there in every match. 
 If it continues to rain on us, ball-striking is going to be a little ugly at times and you're going to have to make some scrambling pars and par is going to win holes.

 Q. This thing is going to go on and on; how do you deal with that and keep your energy levels up? 
 STEWART CINK: It's something that we have to do as professionals, we are accustomed to this type of stuff and guys are pretty good about switching it off and there's a couple sleeping up there right now. 

 Q. You were a captain's pick this time around, how important was it to be on this team? How much do you love Ryder Cup? 
 STEWART CINK: We are really getting dumped on here. The Ryder Cup is the pinnacle of our sport, it really is the best experience and it's intense and means everything to us to win The Ryder Cup, and to come over here and be able to contribute to the team and be part of the team for the U.S. is just another -- it's another one of my favourite moments of my career. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT