WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 19, 2010
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Stewart, you had a chance to watch Tiger's conference this morning, your thoughts?
 STEWART CINK: I haven't seen it yet. I saw part of it and I had to get in the shower and get ready to come over here. 
 But from the part I did hear and some of the talk afterwards, it sounds like it's part of the recovery or the healing process that he has to go through. I've got a couple of good friends at home that have gone through the alcohol abuse program with AA, and similar steps are taken in the healing process where you have to make amends to the people you've hurt, and you have to start the bridge to the other side. And I think that's where Tiger is.

 Q. What were your thoughts of what Tiger had to say?
 STEWART CINK: Oh, it sounded heartfelt to me. It sounds like it was a really difficult thing for him to do. And from a guy that's done a lot of tough things in golf over the years, it was probably one of the most difficult things he's ever had to do. And it was something probably that's going to help him along the way of healing.

 Q. He asked the players for their patience and their understanding, are you?
 STEWART CINK: Yeah, I've been that way the whole time. It's hard to understand, not having been there myself, but as far as understanding, I have plenty of that. 
 And Tiger is -- he's a tough guy that's going to, like he said, overcome this. And that's going to be part of the process for him.

 Q. Was there anything that was left out, something else you might have liked to have heard?
 STEWART CINK: I didn't hear the statement, so I don't know. I just -- I heard bits and pieces of it when I was trying to get ready to come over here. Other than that I just heard reaction from some of the guys and gals on TV. I haven't seen it, read it or anything like that that, just bits and pieces. But what I did hear sounds like -- it sounded like it was heartfelt.

 Q. Would you expect that he would play? He said he would like to try to play this year?
 STEWART CINK: For me to say anything about that would just be trying to get inside his head and figure out what he was thinking. There's no way I could ever do that. I've tried to do that on the golf course plenty of times and it hasn't worked yet. For this, no, I have no idea. But he'll do it when it's his time.

 Q. I know you haven't heard all of Tiger's statement, what's your reaction to what you did hear?
 STEWART CINK: I was moved by how difficult it seemed to be for him. But it's a big part of the process to go through that difficulty and to face up to what's happened. And especially the hurt that other people are feeling, his friends and family. 
 So from that point of view, I think it was a very important step for him to take.

 Q. How will he be received by the players when he returns, do you think?
 STEWART CINK: I think he'll be received well. One thing we have to remember, we've all made mistakes and all sinned. And forgiveness is a huge part of the process. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT