PGA GRAND SLAM OF GOLF
October 21, 2009
Angel Cabrera
Stewart Cink
Lucas Glover
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JULIUS MASON: Stewart Cink, ladies and gentlemen, finishing third in the PGA Grand Slam of Golf. Shot a 70 today, finishing at 5-under.   
 Stewart, general thoughts on your rounds and then we'll go to Q&A, please.   
 STEWART CINK: I had it going really well, and then I just, I don't know, the wheels kind of fell off out there.   
 I missed a birdie putt on 10 that I really thought I needed to make. Didn't make it.   
 And then the bogey I made on 12 really I just felt like the momentum just sort of dissipated completely. Then I bogeyed the next hole, and then I had a lost ball, so it all went south quickly there on the back nine.   
 But overall I was pretty pleased with the way I played, not feeling ready coming into here, and I had a lot of fun out there playing with those guys. Great experience.   
 JULIUS MASON: Wonderful.   
  
  Q. The eagle on 17?   
 JULIUS MASON: Well, if you hit a good drive out here, there's a couple par 5s that are vulnerable; No. 7 and 17 are both quite vulnerable going downbreeze. After the bad stretch of holes I had, I wanted to at least salvage something, and maybe make myself look good on TV. That was just a nice drive and a 9-iron from about 175, and the putt was a good putt all the way.   
 You know, it was a little bit of a highlight to lift my spirits.  
  
  Q. How far was the putt?   
 STEWART CINK: It was probably 18, 20 feet.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk us through the problem with the drive on 15; did you not find the ball?   
 STEWART CINK: To the right of the hole, there's some plant that we have been told is called oyster plant. I don't know if that's accurate or not, but I heard it was. The ball goes down there, and it's in the thick stuff and they were pretty certain where it went, but we couldn't find the actual ball. If it did, it became apparent that if I did find it, my drop would be in a bad spot anyway. So I just declared it lost before the five minutes was up and I hit my provisional out there in the fairway.   
  
  Q. You must have felt for a while that you and Lucas seemed to be tied quite well and then it got away from you at the turn.   
 STEWART CINK: I told Lucas when we made the turn, we both ought to shoot 28 on the back nine and make this thing pretty fun. He came close to that, but I didn't; I shot closer to 28 than 28.   
 I had some momentum going, and in a tournament like this where it's two rounds, you really need to stay on the gas the whole day, the whole two rounds. I made a couple bogeys in a row out there that just, you know, I felt like my momentum was gone, and Lucas had played really well during that stretch.   
 I think he beat me by a stroke starting on 9 for seven straight holes, at least one, and then including the three strokes on 15. He played well and deserves to win and I didn't play that well on the back nine, but I still had a great experience.   
  
  Q. Having had a look at the greens the first rounds, did you almost end up second-guessing yourself sometimes having already seen it or not really?  
 STEWART CINK: No, I didn't feel like there was any of that going on out there. The greens are not that hard to read here because they haven't been here long enough to develop a lot of grain.   
 So they are pretty true out there, and they put really well. So I felt like I putted well most of the day, but on the back nine, I just applied too much pressure to myself, trying to make par putts and not the name of the game when your opponent is out there shooting about 11-under.   
 JULIUS MASON: Stewart Cink, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.   
 Y.E. Yang, finishing fourth place in the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, finishing at 1-under. Some general thoughts on your round, and we'll go to Q&A, please.   
 Y.E. YANG: It was a tough round again, very tired, just can't get over jet-lag right now. And especially around 12, around bedtime for me, I think that was around the 6th or 7th hole, I didn't really get a break when I needed one. So that sort of just discouraged me a bit more.   
 But overall it was a wonderful experience. The people here, the tournament, Bermuda itself is wonderful. So I hope that one day I can come back again.   
  
  Q. Quite a bit has been made about the travel schedule and the kind of chaos and phrenetic pace here. What are your plans for the rest of the year? Are you going to now try to take a break and recharge, or do you feel like having won a major championship, you want to take advantage of that momentum and play in as many opportunities as you can?   
 Y.E. YANG: Yeah, it's a bit tiresome. Right now I'm really sleepy but, yeah, I'm going to go back to Korea tomorrow, and I've got a full ten days' worth of media obligations and sponsor obligations, and then I have to go back to my hometown. They are probably going to prepare a parade over there, as well.   
 So it's a full -- no day off, ten days, probably just sleep and then go onto the next schedule. And then I go to Shanghai for HSBC Champions, and then to the UBS Hong Kong Open the next week and then a week off. But still need to do some appearances in Korea again, so probably about four days off and then I go back to the World Cup, and then I play at the Chevron Challenge and then I finally get some downtime for about three weeks.   
 JULIUS MASON: Y.E. Yang, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.   
 Angel Cabrera, ladies and gentlemen, he likes to win this thing and he likes to finish second, shooting 66 today and finishing at 6-under for the championship.   
 Angel, some thoughts on your round today and we'll go to Q&A, please.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It was a great round for my today. I think everything -- I went on to lose it, on the 12th hole when Lucas had made a very important long putt for par, and I missed a short one for birdie there.   
  
  Q. There were a couple of occasions today where you just came up short with a couple of approach shots. Was the wind slightly more troubling today, or not?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yeah, might have been the wind a little bit. But nevertheless, I hit very good shots and I believe I had a very good round.  
  
  Q. Absolutely, but I was wondering whether you feel you might have left a couple of shots out there at all.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, I made what I made and I missed what I missed, and I think that the 12th hole was a key there.   
  
  Q. And for you now, where do you go now? What's next?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I'm flying tonight to Spain to play the CASTELLÓ MASTERS for The European Tour, and then next week I will be at the Volvo World Match Play.   
  
  Q. Any thoughts on the way Lucas played today? He would have been hard to beat I think no matter how well you played.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Certainly he played very well, but I think that the 12th hole was a key there because he was then with four shots ahead with five to play. He was playing very comfortable out there, so that made it easy for him I guess.   
  
  Q. You said last night that you have now got two major championships, and your goal now is to win many more. Can you have a good year out there on Tour and in the major championships without winning one? Can you define a year as good now without winning a major championship?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yeah, you can definitely have a good year without winning a major. But it cannot be a perfect year if you don't win a major.   
 JULIUS MASON: Thank you very much.   
 Lucas Glover, ladies and gentlemen, fires a 66 today to finish it off, finishing 11-under and winning the 27th PGA Grand Slam of Golf. Congratulations, Lucas.   
 Some general thoughts on your round and we'll go to Q&A please.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Everybody else was off to a pretty quick start, and Stewart got off like wildfire, and Y.E. and Angel the same, and I was just kind of there. I got it turned around there towards the end of the front nine and played pretty good golf from there.   
  
  Q. You were good with the putter again today; any secret what you've been doing the last couple of days?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: I had a pretty poor putting week at The Presidents Cup, and to be honest I didn't do much practicing, and that might have helped.   
 The year I had on the greens after changing to this Nike putter, you know, it's been more consistent, but I've always been up-and-down with the putter. This putter and what I've been working on seem to go out throughout the whole year and keep me a little more consistent.   
 I made a couple of long ones yesterday, and I didn't miss -- I didn't miss anything I felt I should have made today. So pretty good two days on the greens.   
  
  Q. You've talked a little bit about how this setting, this atmosphere is a little bit different than the ones you've been participating in lately obviously, it's both a competition and a celebration. But you get here late, you didn't really get to see the course, you're mic'ed up, I don't know if you are cognizant or thinking about what you say or don't say while you're walking around, and you played lights-out. Do you think you can learn anything from any of that?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, absolutely. I always play my best golf when I'm relaxed, and it's taken me a while to realize that. But starting on about 13 today, I was feeling it a little bit. When any of us compete when we are here or any where, you want to win; we are competitors.   
 But you know, to add to that about having a fun week instead of grinding so hard, I brought out new irons this week with the new grooves just to try and see how they work, because I wanted a couple of rounds under my belt with this new model. So Nike made a good set and I think I like them.   
  
  Q. You had a comfortable lead on 18, but can you tell me about what you were thinking when you were approaching 18?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Obviously I was in a comfortable situation, but you never want to end on a bad score or have a bad feeling leaving the course. I was right in-between clubs, and actually went with the longer club and still came up short. But I was trying to make birdie. That's what my caddie and I said. I said, "I think I can get to 9 there, but it's got to be perfect. If I hit the 8 and hit the right shot, I can get it close." And I hit the right shot; I just misjudged it that bad.   
 Bunker shot, not the greatest, but all I wanted to do was get it out and make sure I didn't have to hit it over.  
  
  Q. What can you say about the fans here in bermuda? Can you talk about the galleries at all?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Yeah, they were great. Obviously very supportive. And you can tell -- this is my first trip here and you can tell people here love golf, and rightly so; weather like this and golf courses like this, this would be hard not to. Very were very great, respectful, understand a good shot and a bad shot; and you want applause on a good shot and you don't really want to hear anything on a bad shot. They understand and it was great, and it was a great week.  
  
  Q. Where do you go from here? What are your movements for the next couple of weeks?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I'm off for about six weeks. My next event will be the first week of December at the Chevron. I'm looking forward to it. I've had a couple sparing weeks off here and there, but I've been pretty busy. I'm going to zip up to Club Glove and leave them there for a few weeks.  
  
  Q. This is a friendly tournament, but how does it feel to come out on top and be champion of champions? Is it something that you could have expected at the start of the year?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: No. We have all said and have heard that this is such a hard tournament to get into, and I would be crazy if I said on January 1 that my goal is to win the Grand Slam, because you only have four chances to get here.  
 When you compete, you want to win, and that's anything. I mean, if I went and picked up a three-on-three basketball game this afternoon, I would want to win. That's how it was here. All four of us came here wanting to win the Grand Slam, and I'm very honored and very happy that it was me.   
  
  Q. Given that you said that you feel more at ease with yourself with your playing now, do you think the raise in expectation which are going to surround your game will be easier to cope with?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: I think so. I think I said this yesterday, or maybe even Monday, but nobody puts more pressure on me than me. And having some success and knowing how to handle it and how to handle the pressure and how my body, my game, how everything reacts, will help me.   
 But I said after the Open, the biggest thing for me that week was Charlotte because I played well on Sunday. Sean O'Hair played a heck of a round and I didn't win, but I didn't blow up, and that was big for me because I had had some poor Sundays in the past but everything builds. We remember everything: Every good shot, every important shot, every long putt. We remember that stuff, and we put it in the bank for later.   
 In a couple of years if I get to the putt similar to what I had on 17 yesterday, I'll go, 'I made one of these on Bermuda two years ago,' or whatever it may be. Every experience, every success is in the memory bank and we take it and we use it.   
  
  Q. What are the new Nikes you are using?  
 LUCAS GLOVER: They are the same cavity that we have had this year with the square grooves but this is just the next year's model. They are Nike VR, which is the Victory Red line, and they have got a little V10 on the hosel, so I know they are for next year.   
 I knew I would have two events to work with them. I didn't give up the wedges. That would be a little too much because that would be giving up too much of an advantage but I just wanted to see how they reacted and I knew it would be breezy. I wanted to see how they reacted with my golf ball and in breezy conditions.   
  
  Q. Do you think you'll wear that pink jacket very much?   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Tonight, for sure, and if y'all will send me some of those socks, make Easter next year. (Laughter).  
 JULIUS MASON: Can you take us through your birdies, please.   
 LUCAS GLOVER: Hit an okay drive, first cut and hit a terrible 4-iron, shot it up into the wind. Wasn't the shot I saw. An okay bunker shot and I had an 8-footer that literally broke a foot. That one was tough.   
 Bounced back on 5, nice up-and-down on the drivable hole. That helped me get right of the chip a little bit about four feet.   
 7 was short today, for a par 5, because of the wind. So we had -- I they we were all up around the green in two but just a 2-putt there for birdie.   
 And then 9 really got things going. I hit a nice drive, nice wedge shot to about 12 feet. Had a pretty big left-to-right break and knocked that one in, and I had good luck on 10 and 11 yesterday. So I had good feelings going into those and I didn't have a putt over a foot on either one of those holes. So that was nice.   
 15, that was one, I was standing in that fairway thinking, I'd like to get some space between me and everybody because I still have to play 16. And that hole scares me. But I hit a nice wedge shot to about ten feet and knocked that in.   
 I was very happy to knock in that 6-footer on 16 for par. I wanted to say I parred it at least once.  
 17, again similar to 7 with the wind the way it was, short, 2-putt birdie and we talked about 18.   
 JULIUS MASON: Lucas Glover, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT