PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2009
Stewart Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How did you overcome that start?  
 STEWART CINK: It was a tough start. It's a long tournament. And I knew the course would be, if I could just settle down and find some kind of a swing to play with. It was a little bit shocking because I've been hitting the ball well. I knew if I could find something the course would yield some and make a few birdies and get back into it. And I did that.   
 The key part of the round was probably the 11th hole for me when I got myself out of position one more time, then I made a really good up-and-down for par on the par 5 and it kept me coming back the right direction instead of slipping back the wrong way.  
 And so overall, I mean, I can't be pleased with 1 over score.  
  
  Q. Can't be pleased?  
 STEWART CINK: I mean I can't be displeased with 1 over.  
  
  Q. Seemed like the whole group, the first five or six holes there was a lot going there. Big numbers. Birdies, bogeys all over the place?  
 STEWART CINK: There were. There's some tough holes in there. But the thing is, if you just get yourself out of position a little bit, you can really make a mess out there and if you hit the ball off the tee you're in good shape, you can make some birdies.   
 You can see the scores aren't really -- they're not that high. So there's some birdies to be made out there, but you can't really get away with very many wild shots.  
  
  Q. You think the 11th was the keyhole. Maybe 7? There was a birdie?  
 STEWART CINK: 7 was the first birdie I made, obvious to look at that one. But more importantly to keep the momentum going.   
 Made another birdie on 9. That was a good hole.   
 And then 11, I got myself out of position. Left it in the front bunker on my third shot and short-sided myself, made a great up-and-down, a tough putt. So instead of going back to I think it would have been 4 over par at the time, I stayed 3 over and I had a good mind-set the rest of the way and had some good birdie holes coming in.  
  
  Q. Talk about being in that pairing.   
 STEWART CINK: Very much so. I played with Angel on Sunday. I like playing with the guy. His English -- some people don't think my English is very good. But his English -- he doesn't have as many words in his arsenal, let's put it that way.   
 But he still can communicate, good shot, bad shot, talk about the course, slow play front, fast play, stuff like that. He's a good guy to play with. And Lucas and I are really good friends. We haven't played together very often. Of course the pairing means a lot considering everyone has won a major here. That's cool.  
  
  Q. Pretty good applause out there on every hole?  
 STEWART CINK: I'll tell you what, since the Open I felt great support from the crowds everywhere. It's awesome. Here was no different. Even though I was way over par early. I think as one fan -- I don't know if he was a fan, but as one person out there behind the ropes said within earshot of me, I was like a gazillion over. That's what he said (laughter) to his friends. So they stayed with me, though. I don't know if he did, but the rest of them did.  
  
  Q. You weren't supposed to hear that?  
 STEWART CINK: I was not intended to hear that, but I heard it. And he knows I heard it. I made it clear to him that I heard it, that I was like a gazillion over.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT