NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2015
Jack Eichel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jack, congratulations on being selected.   Can you talk about your range of emotions, what you're going through, what you're feeling at this moment? 
JACK EICHEL:   It's tough to put into words.   I think just looking back on the entire year, it's been the best year of my life.   This just really caps it off.   You hear a lot about the draft and everything that goes on here, but until you hear your name called and you go on stage and put a jersey on, there's nothing like it.   It's an unbelievable feeling. 

Q.   You told us yesterday you'd let us know or you'd made a decision one way or the other.   Are you going to go to the NHL this year?
JACK EICHEL:   I guess we'll see in a few days.   Can't let the cat out of the bag. 

Q.   You talked yesterday about you and Connor and obviously the comparisons and the one‑two tandem.   Talk about now that you both did go one‑two, what do you think it's going to mean in the future? 
JACK EICHEL:   Yeah, I mean, it's pretty cool.   Everyone pegged us together for a while, and we'll finally be drafted.   Everyone seemed like they had the order.   Nothing was really set in stone until the two GMs went up and said our names, and then obviously we're part of our respective organizations.   I think the next step is just trying to make the NHL. 

Q.   You've been saying that for a long time, that nothing was set in stone.   Now that you see the jersey from Buffalo, what does it mean to you?
JACK EICHEL:   It's unbelievable.   It's tough to put into words right now, just hugging my dad and hugging my mom, it was such a special feeling, my sister.   My mom is a pretty emotional person.   She was crying.   It's really cool to just go through this with your family and the people that have been behind you your entire life. 

Q.   You talked about going through this with your family.   Your friend was just drafted fifth overall.   How exciting will it be to celebrate with him tonight, as well?
JACK EICHEL:   Yeah, it's great.   It was great seeing him walk down and I was able to congratulate him quickly.   It's great to see another guy who I've known for a while and played with and played against.   He lives pretty close to me, so it's nice to see guys from our area of Boston getting drafted and having the success that we've had. 

Q.   Is that the number you'd like to stick with as a Sabre?
JACK EICHEL:   I don't know.   I really hadn't thought about the number, the number choices yet.   I'm not really sure.   15 is a good number.   I've worn it before, and it's my dad's lucky number and it's my sister's lucky number, and it happened to be the year I was drafted, so there's a lot of significance to the number 15. 

Q.   A lot has been made of the Sabres this past year, all the losing and everything.   Now that you're part of the organization, things seem to kind of be moving in a different direction.   What are your thoughts on just kind of joining the Sabres organization and just where they're headed?
JACK EICHEL:   Yeah, I think Buffalo as a city and the Sabres as a team is heading in a great direction.   I think you look at some of the moves that they've made and the guys they've acquired, the guys they have in their system, the guys on their team, there's a lot of positives, and I want to try to become a piece of the puzzle because Buffalo wants success and they want success soon, and I think that's what's going to happen.

Q.   You've had a couple of weeks to think about your week in Buffalo.   I know you talked about it then but it's kind of settled in a little bit.   What are your thoughts on the way you were received and the week you spent there?
JACK EICHEL:   Yeah, it's awesome, the fans in Buffalo, the people there, they're so welcoming and they're so passionate about hockey.   That means a lot to me, to go to a hockey community like that where everyone cares about you.   They want to see you do well. 

Q.   Can you talk about the skill that the national team development program is putting out between you and so many others?
JACK EICHEL:   Yeah, it says a lot about USA Hockey and the direction that they're going in, and I think it says a lot about the national team in Ann Arbor.   It's a tremendous program, and they get all the best players, and they continue to produce great players, and you see the success that everybody is having.   Last year at the draft with so many guys drafted, and this year with guys‑‑ there's a bunch of guys from the NTDP taken today and tomorrow, and it says a lot about USA Hockey.

Q.   Can you comment on the unique foreword used to announce your pick, and second on all the acquisitions today this team has had?
JACK EICHEL:   Yeah, I had an idea that Tim Murray was going to say that in the exact way that he said it.   I was told that he was going to say it like that, so it wasn't really a surprise.   I kind of like it.   He's straightforward, got to the point, didn't have to build up any suspense.   In terms of the guys they've acquired, obviously they're acquiring a lot of good players, guys that have had success, guys that have been in the league, and I think it says something about the organization and how badly they want success. 

Q.   You've known that you were going to be a Buffalo Sabre for quite a while.   What do you know now of your new team's history and just what it feels like to put on that crest? 
JACK EICHEL:   It feels tremendous.   I mean, the feeling of wearing this jersey right now, it really hasn't sunk in to be able to talk to my family and my friends that are all here about the fact that I was just selected by the Sabres in the NHL Draft.   I think it's a dream come true.   It's a dream come true to be selected, and especially in an organization like this with so much passion and tradition.   You look at the Buffalo community, everyone is really into their hockey and knowledgeable, and even though I hadn't been selected until today, it seemed like I had been a part of the Buffalo Sabres for a while now, and to finally put this jersey on, it's a tremendous feeling. 

Q.   Have you had a chance to talk (inaudible)?
JACK EICHEL:   I actually have not talked to him, no. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT