AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
October 6, 2009
Jon Lester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ROB DOELGER: Questions for Jon Lester.   
  
  Q. How much are you looking forward to getting the ball for another Game 1? And what does it mean that you have been given this especially knowing the pedigree that Josh has in the postseason?   
 JON LESTER: Just excited for the game to get here, more or less. We get out here early and have a couple of days to get acclimated with the time change and the travel. So now it's just kind of a waiting game, and getting my work done and getting ready for Thursday.   
 But, yeah, I mean, I was surprised to be in this position. But I'm thankful to be considered for Game 1. You know, obviously, Josh has had a lot of success in the past, and hopefully, he'll continue to do that. Hopefully, I won't let him down or the team down as far as taking the ball in Game 1, and going out and pitching well.   
  
  Q. Is there anything the team or a pitcher can carry over from past success against a team in the postseason?   
 JON LESTER: I guess it's just that added confidence. I mean, I wouldn't say that in an arrogant I way. But we know we've played this team well, and they play us tough. This isn't going to be an easy series. It never has been.   
 So I guess it's just that comfort level of knowing, hey, if we get in a bind, we've done it before. You just draw from that past experience, and hopefully, you're able to take something away from that and use it in this series.   
  
  Q. How vigilant do you need to be with the Angels on the bases? And what is the key to stopping them?   
 JON LESTER: It's nothing that we haven't seen from them before. I mean, this isn't anything new and unexpected from the Angels. They've always been a team that runs and runs the bases well.   
 You just have to be conscious of varying your looks and your holds. But at the same time you can't take the focus away from the hitter at home plate. So, you know, if you start focusing on the runner too much, that takes the focus away from your pitch. Once you do that, that's when a single turns into a home run or an out becomes a base hit.   
 So as long as you try to stay focused and at the same time mix your looks up, hopefully, we can slow them down a little bit.   
  
  Q. After every start you always credit the defense behind you. How comfortable are you knowing those guys are back there and they've had a solid season defensively?  
 JON LESTER: It just makes our job easier. We know that we don't have to be perfect in order to get out. You get the groundballs and flyballs in the outfield, guys are going to run it down. We've got a lot of speed out there. We've got guys in the infield that can catch and throw. Not only when the ball's in front of them but on the move.   
 It makes it easier for us to know that if the ball's put in play, it's probably going to be an out. So, like I said, it just makes our job easier. We don't have to go out and try to strike everybody out or get outs ourselves. We know we have eight other guys behind us to protect us and get outs.   
  
  Q. You had the start in the '07 World Series, but after last year kind of taking a regular turn in the postseason rotation, how much confidence did that give you, just the familiarity with pitching in the postseason and kind of what that takes to have success?  
 JON LESTER: I think it just goes back to that comfort level. You know, once you experience it, it's something that never goes away. It's not something that you're going to forget or just put in the storage department and never remember again about it. So I think once you get one game under your belt, it makes every other game easier.   
 It's going to be crazy here just like it was last year and when we went to Tampa last year. But that's what makes it fun. You've got a bunch of screaming people in the stands, and it makes it hard for you to focus. But you just draw from those past experiences like I said before, and you learn how to handle those situations and hopefully you can stay focused enough to execute the pitch and get some guys out.   
  
  Q. Lots of people have talked about how different the Angels are offensively this year, more selective at the plate. When you see them this year do you notice a difference from last year and before that?   
 JON LESTER: At times yes and no. Obviously, having Bobby Abreu in the lineup helps out. He sees a lot of pitches. He's a very patient hitter. He's a guy that's definitely not afraid to hit with two strikes. You know, I think that helped trickle down into some other spots in their lineup.   
 But they're still aggressive. They still go up there with a plan, and they try to execute their plan. I think what makes the Angels so difficult is the way they run the bases. They're always pushing the envelope. They're always trying to get that extra base and put the pressure on us or the team that they're playing to, you know, to push the envelope, like I said.   
 I don't think they're any different as far as attacking them. I still have to pitch to my strengths and my game plan. But knowing that, you go in there hopefully with the same approach, and hopefully, you can get some guys out early, swing at some of your pitches instead of letting them dictate the count and dictate the plan.  
  
  Q. Some of the challenges of pitching against a team that's with John Lackey pitching for them who is a big-game pitcher as well. What are some of the challenges in that?   
 JON LESTER: I can't really worry about what John Lackey does. You know, I have to go out and pitch against the Angels. If he was hitting, then I'd have to worry about it. But he's got his game plan, and I've got mine. That's what I'm going to try to stick to and worry about the Angels hitters, you know. I just have to let our hitters go out and do what they've done all season, and hopefully they can score some runs.   
 We've shown that we can do that against not only him, but some other good pitchers. I just have to worry about trying to get outs and not worry about scoring runs.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT