AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
September 30, 2008
Jon Lester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mr. Lester. 

 Q. Jon, can you describe the emotion you felt when Tito told you you were going to be the Game 1 starter? 
 JOHN LESTER: You know, I really -- he really doesn't call me in the office or anything, it was kinda one of those deals where he let me know Josh was feeling a little pain in his oblique and it might be me pitching. 
 That was really it, and, I'm excited. Whether it be Game 1 or 2 or 3 I was excited just to get the ball and have a little different role this year. 

 Q. Jon, what would be the keys going against the Angels? 
 JOHN LESTER: Same keys as it's been all year for me, getting ahead early, making sure I establish that I can throw strike one early on and go from there. Let the game dictate what we want to do. 
 They can do a great job, he's ready to go and I'll follow his lead like usual. 

 Q. Jon, Terry has talked a lot in the past about how -- what Josh's work ethic is like and how that rubs off on other guys. Has that been the case for you and can you articulate at all what type of example he sets and what you've been able to pick up from him? 
 JOHN LESTER: Josh has been great with his work. He's definitely a guy when I got called up I wanted to model myself after. He is always in the weight room busting his butt making sure he's here on time. He's definitely a guy that you look up to and there is a reason why he pitches 200 innings a year and competes and wins a lot of games. So I try to follow his lead and go from there. It's definitely helped me out tremendously this year. 

 Q. Jon, what has been a great year for you, your record is much better at home than away. Anything you can contribute that to? 
 JOHN LESTER: I don't know, I guess you just feel more comfortable at home, I think really any player or pitcher will tell you that. You just have your routines that you feel more comfortable with at home and you have the -- I don't know, I guess the ability to do 'em on your schedule and on the road it seems like you're a little more rushed, you're in a hotel room, a place you really don't know. But I'm not too worried about it, just going to go out and do my same deal and hopefully pitch well. 

 Q. Jon, I don't know if you want to use the word "aggressive" but if not "aggressive" how would you explain the transformation you took your rookie year to the pitcher you've become, able to pitch deeper into games? 
 JOHN LESTER: I think the biggest thing is confidence. If I do make a mistake sometimes they're going to hit it, sometimes they're not and hopefully you've established enough in the strike zone that they're going to get thrown off by that mistake. It's just experience and we all get starts under your belt and as you go. Definitely John Farrell has helped out a lot keeping me running out there and telling me everything is going to be good and not to worry about things and just trust my stuff and I'm starting to realize that I can trust my stuff and be successful. 

 Q. What difference has Teixeira made to the Angels lineup and do you pitch any differently now that he's in it? 
 JOHN LESTER: Obviously he makes a big difference. He's a big power bat in the lineup and they already had a good lineup. He adds that extra power and I don't think you pitch any differently, you still have to be aggressive no matter who is up at the plate. You know, hopefully he's not one of the guys that beats ya. You really have to stay away from the key guys and try to make some other guys beat ya and he's a guy that you try not to, you know, give into the two or three-run home runs that can hurt you. So he's definitely a guy that we're aware of and we're going to try to do our best to execute pitches and hopefully we can get him out. 

 Q. Jon, how much can you benefit from being in a clinching game last year, Coors Field, can you draw from that experience to starting on the road, big experience as a Game 1 starter, can you build off that experience you gained last year? 
 JOHN LESTER: I think so. Anytime you pitch in a playoff atmosphere it helps with your nerves, with your emotions and being able to get a couple of appearances last year, not only the Game 4 game but a couple in the Cleveland series, it definitely helps, but, you know, you can control your emotions, not let the crowd affect you. It comes with experience, you've just got to keep running out there and performing and controlling your emotions. 

 Q. Jon, can you rank winning, clinching that Game 4 in Colorado with the no-hitter, how would you compare those, 1, 2? 
 JOHN LESTER: I would think the game in Colorado. 

 Q. Because? 
 JOHN LESTER: It was the World Series. It's what you play for every year to get a ring, to be the World Champs. And to be a part of that is definitely unbelievable. Obviously the no-hitter is nice, it's something I will definitely always remember but the World Series means a heck of a lot more not only to me but I think to this organization. 

 Q. Jon, your last start against these guys you made on three days' rest and it seemed like after that point you really locked in. Was there something particularly that locked in for you from that point through the rest of the season? 
 JOHN LESTER: You know, I don't know. I think just like what I've stressed all year, strike one, command in the strike zone, I've been able to use both sides of the plate easier this year, haven't been fighting myself as much and I think it's the consistency of pitching every five days. I don't think there is one thing that has changed my mind-set or helped a light bulb go on or anything like that. You get in that routine, start to feel comfortable and start reeling off a couple good starts and build up the confidence and let it snowball. 

 Q. Jon, with what you went through physically and mentally, how has that helped you, especially at this stage of the game in terms of maturity and appreciating the opportunities that you have? 
 JOHN LESTER: It's definitely helped with, I think, after game, you know, sitting down and going over what took place, whether it be good or bad. You know, the good games mean a lot to me, but the bad games don't seem to affect me as much as they used to. Before, all this stuff, a couple years ago. It puts it in realization that this is a game, it's fun. Obviously I don't like to do bad, but if I do bad I got another day, come in tomorrow and with the same attitude and get my work done and go on to my next start. It's definitely helped me put a lot more things in perspective. 

 Q. Jon, can you talk about the team's health and how important will it be to have a lot of people healthy for this series and the rest of the playoffs? 
 JOHN LESTER: It's very important. You know, we've struggled all year with injuries and I think we've done a really good job with guys coming up and filling in, whether it be position players or pitchers. You know, it's been a battle for us all year and I think that shows you the character of this team. You know, whether we have these guys in our lineup, which would obviously help tremendously to where if we don't we're going to make adjustments and hopefully the guys filling in can do just as good of a job as they've done all year. We obviously miss J.D. and Mike Lowell and we're hopeful they can come back and play in the series but if they don't, like I said, we'll make adjustments and keep battling. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Jon.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT