NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 17, 2004
Vincent Damphousse
Scott Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 SCOTT THORNTON:  I guess so.  It's obviously a little frustrating.  We wanted to obviously have a big game tonight and we felt the last couple of games, three of the first four, I think we outplayed them and tonight we really wanted to do more of the same and we didn't.  They won some battles.  That it was kind of much like game two. 
 Q.  You haven't scored in the first period yet, has that been frustrating? 
 SCOTT THORNTON:  I don't know.  We don't necessarily go out there and think we got to score in the first period.  We're just trying to stick with our game plan, which is try and create some turnovers and stuff.  We don't put a time limit on when we want to score.  But it's obviously nice to score early and try and run with the lead. 
 Q.  The breakaway and the short-handed goal, did that take all the wind out of your sails? 
 SCOTT THORNTON:  Well, in Game One they got a couple of them and we fought back.  And we try not to give up in here.  We have come from behind this year in other games, and now is not the time of year to really quit in the game.  So we tried to stick with it.  But I think they really outworked us tonight and really limited our chances. 
 Q.  How does that get to the point where you can just get out emotionally and physically beaten off the top?  I know there's no switch you can turn on, but it seemed that they were a little bit more aggressive tonight. 
 SCOTT THORNTON:  Yeah, I can't say why that happens.  Obviously we would change it if we could.  But maybe we were just a little, I think in the first period, we were trying to force a lot of plays on the blue line and created some turnovers, which limited our forecheck.  And that maybe slowed us down early and for whatever reason we just weren't making a lot of tape-to-tape passes, and weren't dumping the puck in the right areas. 
 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 VINCENT DAMPHOUSSE:  Yeah, it is string.  But I think we made some mistakes.  I made a bad pass on the first goal, and we got down 2-0 in the first period.  So far the team that's scored first has won the game, and it's obviously a huge advantage to score first, and so far at home we have made the mistakes.  So we only have ourselves to blame. 
 Q.  Can you talk about the first goal on the power play. 
 VINCENT DAMPHOUSSE:  Well, I saw him when the puck left my stick.  I turned around, obviously I saw that he was there and I never saw him before.  So it was too late to change that.  And I was hoping that he would miss or that one of our defense could catch him.  But obviously it is my mistake. 
 Q.  What did they do differently against your line to even strength on the power play? 
 VINCENT DAMPHOUSSE:  I don't know.  I think it's just our line wasn't getting as many shots.  And I think that like I said, it's more our game than their game.  I think we didn't play a very strong game tonight, for whatever reason, and I don't have any explanation to be honest.  We didn't play as hard and we got to go back to Calgary and regroup. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT