BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2001
Tommy Amaker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH TOMMY AMAKER: I'd like to congratulate Boston College.  They are an outstanding basketball team.  I thought we really battled for a good 20 minutes and probably about 10 minutes into the second half.  You could just see where their strength, their experience, their ability to take away everything we do offensively just put us in a deep hole.  They were tough around the basket.  I'm just very impressed with their team.  Obviously, it's the first time we've faced them, we had a chance to watch them on tape.  But seeing them up close, I'm just disappointed for our kids.  We gave a tremendous run and effort to try to do the unthinkable here this weekend.  We certainly gave it a gallant effort for three days.  So now it's just kind of tough to see how it comes to a close.  
 

Q.  Coach, it's your third game in three nights, obviously a very high level of emotion.  You don't want to take anything away from BC, but did you run out of steam tonight?
 
COACH TOMMY AMAKER: I think it's a fair assessment.  I certainly thought that we, when things get a little tougher and, you know, sometimes, you know, they helped us run out of steam.  They did a phenomenal job of putting us in tight spots and you have to give them credit.  But as you mentioned, it's been a tough journey.  We were excited about the opportunity to do something very special, but we ran into, what we think are the best team in our league.  
 

Q.  When you look at that team, do you think to yourself,  "Hey, in a year or two, we have that kind of discipline, we can keep our kids, we can really take this somewhere"?
 
COACH TOMMY AMAKER: That's something I'm sure when we get a chance to evaluate things in the off season to look back at this game, you can just see how physical and how strong -- I thought their team is very much together.  They know one another very well in terms of what they're trying to do out there on the court.  It takes a lot of discipline, as you mentioned, to get to that point.  I think they're the first ones to tell you they went through a lot to get to this point right now.  That is a model we can use and certainly something I'm sure our kids can point to in the future. 
 

Q.  You must be looking forward to playing next week?
 
COACH TOMMY AMAKER: Well, you know what, we're in a wait-and-see mode right now.  You don't know what's going to happen.  I know a lot of things are going to happen on Sunday, Sunday evening and Sunday night.  It's tough to think about all those things right now after you lose 75-48.  
 

Q.  There was tremendous amount of poise throughout this tournament.
 
COACH TOMMY AMAKER: I think so.  We told our kids after the game that we've come a long way in two weeks.  Sometimes, you know, it takes a while for things to gel and to mix and match, and  -- but we think we've done a lot of good things.  And sometimes when you're in the middle of it it's hard to look at it as a whole.  I'm sure as we get away from it for a couple days, look back, we'll recognize a lot of the lessons we've learned here in the Big East tournament.  I'm proud of our kids.  We battled and we represented our university very well.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about Troy Bell's game tonight?
 
COACH TOMMY AMAKER: Yeah, he's outstanding.  I mean, everyone's always talked about how quietly he gets his points and things that he does on the floor.  I understand that.  He's explosive.  He's very quick.  He's deadly from anywhere on the floor.  Any time he's open he's a threat.  He makes every free throw so when he gets fouled  -- he's just an outstanding player.  You look at his line, you can see why now everyone has voted him co-Player-of-the-Year.  
 

Q.  It looks like you guys had the matchup on the inside before the game.  During the game it didn't seem like you went inside that much.  What happened?
 
COACH TOMMY AMAKER: They are a tough matchup for us.  We tried to use  -- try to play who we are off the bat and did a decent job of that.  As the game kind of got away from us late, trying to match up with their players and their forwards and they're undersized, but they don't play undersized, it made it tough for us to stick with a big line-up.  We had to try to go smaller.  Obviously, that didn't work either.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT