BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2000
Tommy Amaker
Shaheen Holloway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 COACH AMAKER: It was certainly a disappointing loss for us. I mean any time you get an
opportunity to make a run and try to get back into a game after being down by a lot of
points in the first half, it can be very disappointing and disheartening. You have to give
them a lot of credit. I thought El-Amin was tremendous. He played a great ball game. We
didn't have any answers for him in the first half. I was proud of our team for showing a
lot of heart to battle back, especially Shaheen's effort in the second half. I thought he
put our team on his shoulders and carried us back to where we cut it to three. Mouring's
big three cut it and I thought took a lot of wind out of us. 
 
Q. Tommy, what happened with the technical foul?
 
 COACH AMAKER: I thought there should have been a foul called and I said so. 
 
Q. Tommy, the defensive job they did on Darius, he went 0 for 6 in the field, 0 for 2.
You can't have that happen to you.
 
 COACH AMAKER: It's difficult for us when our leading scorer doesn't get many good looks
or it's not -- doesn't get many opportunities to score points. I thought he had some
opportunities early in the game at the very beginning of the game and we didn't cash in.
He had an opportunity to finish on a break with a dunk and a few more shorter shots and
early in the first half. Certainly I thought they did a great job of defending him.
Freeman is a very tough player, very physical, has great size and athletic ability. 
 
Q. Wanted to ask Tommy, the first half you guys didn't shoot very well. Was that your
offense, their defense, combination?
 
 COACH AMAKER: Yeah, I think a combination of both. When we've played against
Connecticut they've done a tremendous job defensively against us. You have to give them a
lot of credit. I think they're an experienced team, as I've said all along, they're very
strong. They lock in on us pretty well. It's difficult at times, with their experience
knowing how to defend different teams. That's one way that they've chosen to guard us and
certainly it's been successful. Nonetheless, we didn't execute as well as we should have.
I thought we played into their hands somewhat by forced shots and being rushed. That's a
lot to do with how hard they play defensively. 
 
Q. Shaheen, first half Khalid has a big offensive game. Second half, did you make a
concerted effort to come out and try to establish yourself?
 
 SHAHEEN HOLLOWAY: No, I just wanted to come out in the second half and try to contain
him. He did a great job in the second half of reading screens and reading our defense. I
just wanted to come out in the second half and be more aggressive on both ends and try to
get my team back in it. 
 
Q. Coach, yesterday you talked about a team that has won 20 games getting into the
NCAA. What's your viewpoint today?
 
 COACH AMAKER: Same. 
 
Q. Could you elaborate? You've lost a game.
 
 COACH AMAKER: Certainly having 20 wins for us, I mean we just mentioned that to our
team, so it's not a great time to think about anything positive after losing a game in the
Big East tournament. We're proud of the achievement of getting to the plateau of 20 wins.
That's always a significant thing in college basketball. I'm hoping that's something that
will be taken into consideration come Sunday. 
 
Q. Shaheen, do the players think during the game, 20 wins, NCAAs? Are you thinking that
at all today after the game, during the game? What are your thoughts on the matter?
 
 SHAHEEN HOLLOWAY: No, we weren't concerned about the 20 wins. We were trying to come
out and get a victory today, get as many wins as possible this week here. But you still
got -- you got to give our guys credit for fighting, come back in the second half and
fighting the whole season. I'm proud of the effort we put into this. We didn't come out
with a victory today, but hopefully we still got some more basketball to play. 
 
Q. I don't know if you saw the Georgetown game, did it have any effect, did you feel it
was a big opportunity if you won this game?
 
 COACH AMAKER: Certainly we have a lot of respect for all the teams in our league. We
anticipated coming in there were going to be some upsets and we were hoping we could
participate in that on the victory side. We didn't think about the next game or anything
like that. We knew the challenge in front of us was with a team that is one of the teams
we think is a top team in the country. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the problems El-Amin presented?
 
 COACH AMAKER: He's certainly one of the better guards we faced all year. Going to be
considered one of the best guards, point guards in the country. I thought he had a
tremendous first half. I think he played a very heady game, he picked his spots and he
made his shots and he made his free-throws that's what you have to do. I thought Shaheen
certainly did that in the second half. I thought he showed a lot of character, pride,
digging in and carrying us back to the game. You saw a display of two outstanding point
guards, certainly El-Amin played an outstanding first half and I thought Holloway an
outstanding second half. 
 
Q. Shaheen, when you see Darius being shut down like that, where do you go in terms of
options? Do you recognize he's not getting the shots and start looking elsewhere? How does
that change things for you?
 
 SHAHEEN HOLLOWAY: I just try to tell him kind of get to the baskets more because they
was cutting down on his three-pointers. You have to give Connecticut a lot of credit. They
did a good job of shutting him down. They played the passing lanes, got physical with him.
But Darius just gonna learn from this, this is going to be a learning experience for next
year. Hopefully we have more basketball to play, so next week. Definitely something we can
learn from. 
 
Q. Where does this leave you confidence wise?
 
 SHAHEEN HOLLOWAY: Our team still has a lot of confidence. It was a tough loss today but
we showed a lot of character in the second half by coming and fighting back. Right there
it showed we could play with anybody. We just have to bring it for the whole 40 minutes,
not just 20 minutes. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT