NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 24, 2010
Won Joon Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Pretty good, huh?   
 WON JOON LEE: Yeah, very good. Yeah, I think I went through a stretch from 8 to 11 where I had to make little putts, and I missed a short one on 10, missed that. And I had two eight footers on 8 and 9, and I hit some very good putts.   
 Otherwise it was, you know, solid up until the last hole. Just tough to try to hit putts 55 feet over hills. There is a big hill in the back of the green, so, yeah, otherwise I'm really happy.  
  
  Q. Did you think going out this morning an early starting time might be an advantage for you to get over the hump?   
 WON JOON LEE: Not really. It's been blowing pretty consistently today. Starting from, I presume, about 7:30. I got here at 8:00 and it was still windy. I thought this course hadn't played as firm as it has the last couple of years, and it still felt like that.   
 It was a low 64 out there, couple of shots short, but still a good result.  
  
  Q. Did you grow up in Australia?  
 WON JOON LEE: I did grow up in Australia.  
  
  Q. How does this course compare?   
 WON JOON LEE: We play very similar courses. A lot of trees, a lot of tough fairways and some tough rough, and we get a lot of wind in Australia, very similar to what we get.  
  
  Q. It said in your bio in the book that you didn't play golf until right before the Olympics. Was there any correlation or not?   
 WON JOON LEE: No, that's when my dad picked it up. It just happened to coincide with the 2000 Olympics. I didn't really know the sport until then.  
  
  Q. I thought it was hilarious what you said about slow Australian basketball players. Did you have a chance to go far in your basketball career do you think?   
 WON JOON LEE: Oh, you know what, I'm the same height I was now when I was 16. Maybe if I grew about eight more inches I would have thought about it. But I'm too slow and short to be in the NBA.  
  
  Q. Did golf click with you right away?   
 WON JOON LEE: Not really. I didn't enjoy it. I was a kid that used to play computer games all day. To go out to hot golf courses playing 18 holes with his dad, walking, carrying his own golf bag, so it wasn't that quick straightaway. It took me a few months to get into it. Probably when I made my first birdie playing it was exciting from there.  
  
  Q. Why did your dad pick up the game?   
 WON JOON LEE: He used to play soccer, and his back was no good. So I don't know how golf helps your back, but he went for something with a little less contact.  
  
  Q. Why did he move the family to Australia?   
 WON JOON LEE: I have no idea. You might want to ask him that one (laughing).  
  
  Q. Talk about today. I mean, all the birdies and all the misses. Were you even close today?   
 WON JOON LEE: No, I think I maybe missed three greens today. I hit a lot of good shots close. I've had the par-5s close today, which I hadn't done in a long time. So I hit some really close shots and I holed a couple of good putts.  
  
  Q. Was this round coming this week? Did you feel it building to this point?   
 WON JOON LEE: Not really. You know, yesterday I shot a 67. But you know, it happened on my back nine, and I never really felt anything like this coming a long way. Couple of good scores and a golf course together. I'm just glad I did.  
  
  Q. How were the conditions today compared to yesterday?   
 WON JOON LEE: Very similar, maybe a little less breezy today. The greens seemed to be the same. There were a lot of accessible pins today I thought.  
  
  Q. Were you anymore comfortable today playing because you were playing pretty much the same thing as yesterday and pretty much the wind?  
 WON JOON LEE: Well, I've grown up in a lot of wind, so playing in wind doesn't really bother me so much. It's something that I've learned to kind of just deal with. Sometimes it gets the better of me, but not often enough.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT