NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Bernard James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   If you can start your opening remarks about the whole Draft experience and feelings about ending up with the Mavericks.   
BERNARD JAMES:   You just saw, the whole pre‑Draft process, I really enjoyed it, just traveling, meeting players that I have not played against in college; meeting the staff for a lot of these teams.   
You know, I didn't have the opportunity to work out for Dallas, but I know a lot about their program.   I know a lot about their team.   I've been to Dallas plenty of times.   It's a great community, great city, a great team.   So I'm really happy to be going there and can't wait to get started.   
   
 Q.   Talk about what Coach Ham, his pro experience as a coach, and what advice he gave you to be able to get ready for the next level.   
BERNARD JAMES:   I mean, just he tells us stories about his experience as a pro coach all the time.   He says he likes college a lot better, coaching college guys.   
But, you know, did he stress how important attitude and work ethic are.   That can make up for a lot of lack in the skill department if you just work hard every day and improve.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your journey, you're going to be an older rookie.   Talk about your journey.   
BERNARD JAMES:   It has been a journey, man.   You know, six years in the military; CCC, two years in junior college and two years at Florida State.   I've improved so much in basketball, just from my first day playing in the military to now, which is a ten‑year process.   
I still have a lot more to learn.   I'm nowhere near my ceiling, and I think Dallas, you'll see me improve a lot there and I'll be able to contribute.   
   
 Q.   Being older and experienced, what does it mean to be a polished person, as well as a high‑character person; did your parents instill it into you or coaches or your high school former athletic director?   How do you see the benefit walking in at 27?   
BERNARD JAMES:   I mean, the benefits are exactly what you said.   Just high character.   You know, having that life experience, it makes me think a better teammate than most.   I've experienced things that a lot of these guys haven't and can't relate to, and I think I'll be able to bring that to a team and just kind of help keep the team grounded and focused on what's important.   
   
 Q.   I know a lot of people are focused on one day being in that Green Room and making it happen.   But what's the experience coming here, sitting in the audience, going in the second round, but the benefits of just being here and being a part of it still.   
BERNARD JAMES:   Yeah, I'm not the type of guy to have an ego or anything, so I just appreciate the opportunity.   I've worked hard to get here, and I'm going to do my best to make Dallas proud to have me.   You know, I feel like Green Room or not, you're still going to have to earn your keep.   So going into the second round, going into the first round, it's not much of a difference to me.   I'm still going to have to go there and work hard every day just like the rest of these guys.   
   
 Q.   Talk about, you came from a defensive system in Florida State, and now that can help you with Dallas, especially working with a defensive coach like Rick Carlisle.   
BERNARD JAMES:   It's going to be huge.   We have played so many different defensive schemes at Florida State.   Every workout I've been to, I've been able to‑‑ I've had experience with what they wanted me to do.   So I'm going to step into Dallas and I have already had experience with what they are doing no matter what.   
I think I'll be able to pick it up quick and really, really get fine tuned into their defense.   You know, whatever I can contribute on offense is a plus.   
   
 Q.   I know a lot of times we sit back with all of this great opportunity; we think of cars, we think of houses, but have you thought about a charitable event or a foundation or something that you want to give back?   
BERNARD JAMES:   I'm definitely going to do something in relation to veterans.   I am a veteran and I've been in school.   I know it's tough sometimes.   Whatever I do, I'm definitely going to help the veterans out.   Men and women, fighting for our country holds a special place in my heart.   I've done it myself and I just want to help out my brothers and sisters.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT