CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Randy Sanders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about Dalvin Cook.  Does he do things that are hard to describe?  
RANDY SANDERS: He definitely does things that are special.  You know, I've been fortunate to have been around some really, really good backs through the years, and I've had a lot of people ask me, how do you rank them, where does he rank?  They're all different, and they all have their unique skills.  But Dalvin has been phenomenally consistent.  He's been very tough, very durable.  I've always said that a running back has to be genetically superior to hold up because it's the only position on the field that you can clip him, you can chop block him, you can basically do anything but grab his facemask or hit him when he's on the ground.  But he's shown up week after week, he has the ability to hit home runs from anywhere, which is really nice.  Any time you've got somebody like that that can hit a home run, it's what I call an eraser.  He can erase other people's mistakes.  It gives you a chance.  It gives you a chance to be successful.   
 Q.  Offensively you guys have seemed to find a really nice rhythm the second half of the season.  What was the difference?  What was the key?  
RANDY SANDERS: Well, I think as Auden Tate has come on, I think as Nyqwan Murray has come on and developed for us, Deondre has continued to get better, there's no question, whenever you're playing as many young people as we are, you should continue to improve as the season goes.  It's not like these guys have reached their potential yet as players, and they should continue to improve, not only this year but -- but we lose Kareem Are, Freddie, obviously probably going to lose Dalvin -- but other than that, we have most of the team returning, and they should continue to improve.  They're still young guys.   
But I think they've bought in.  We've had some players come on and develop for us and become much more consistent, and it's allowed us to kind of get into a groove as the season has gone on.   
 Q.  Can talk about Peppers a little bit; how good is he, and is there anybody you compare him to?  
RANDY SANDERS: Well, his versatility is one of the things that jumps out at you on tape.  Not a real big guy, but he's not small, but he plays close to the ball, plays a fairly physical position, and really plays linebacker.  He allows them to essentially play nickel defense all the time, and he's as good as a linebacker, even though he's not typical linebacker size, and obviously he's good as a defensive back.  He's able to cover and do a great job that way.   
He's hard to fool.  He doesn't bite the fakes and things like that.  He understands his position.   
 Q.  Anybody you compare him to that comes to mind?  
RANDY SANDERS: Honestly I get scared of comparisons sometimes because, I don't know, the last 28 years there's been a lot of good players.  But he's unique.  He's unique in all the things he's able to do.   
 Q.  Are there things that Don Brown does that -- it seems like over the last couple years, is there something in his scheme that's unique or something he does in terms of play calling?  
RANDY SANDERS: Well, I think obviously he has a really good scheme.  He understands the scheme.  He understands how you're going to attack the things he does, and then he's been doing it long enough he knows the answers to what you're going to counter with.  Now, he's done it with pretty good players the last few years, no question about that, and they've got a lot of good football players, but you take a good football coach and give him good football players, and you've got a chance to have the kind of defense they have this year.  You look at them statistically and they're top one or two or three at almost everything, and the ones they aren't, they're like 12th or something.  It's ridiculous what they've been able to accomplish.  But it's also an unusual group to have 10 seniors starting on a defensive side in college football anymore.  We don't really have 10 seniors on our team, and they've got 10 seniors starting on defense, and the one guy that isn't is a junior.  A lot of experience, a lot of guys that are mature.  They have obviously bought into what he's teaching and the scheme that they're putting out there.  And they do a great job executing.  They're good football coaches, no question about that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT