PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 27, 2017
Parker Cothren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PARKER COTHREN: Very grateful.  When I first got here, they said we wouldn't be in a bowl game until my senior year.  And we've been blessed with Coach Franklin coming and bringing a lot of these good recruits, a lot of good friends that I made throughout the years.  And it's just been a blessing to play in the bowl games, great experiences, a lot of fun.  And I'm glad I get to play one more game.   
 Q.  What would you say Coach Franklin has done for this program?  How have you seen (indiscernible) grow just under his energy and his whole attitude?  
PARKER COTHREN: He's really big on the principle and mindset and making sure everyone has a positive attitude all the time.  We have core values.  He's really brought the team closer together.  More like a brotherhood than anything.  So I think that's a good aspect of what he's brought and helped our team out with.   
 Q.  What's your team impression of being in Arizona in the valley (inaudible)?  
PARKER COTHREN: So far it's really cool.  I think everyone here would agree with me.  That's the first time I've ever been out here, first time I've seen a wild cactus growing on the ground.  I thought that was neat.  I didn't realize how tall they were.  It's been awesome so far.   
 Q.  Some of your teammates mentioned the landscape and scenery is a little different -- you're not bundled up in a winter coat or any of that stuff.  Is the climate refreshing for you playing in this game?  
PARKER COTHREN: Yeah.  I mean, it doesn't really get too cold.  Doesn't get too hot either.  Seems perfect here.  I don't know why anyone would leave.   
 Q.  Talked with Curtis.  I got a kickball game later today.  I said give me one Cothren to kick a home run at the end of the game.  Is it Curtis or Parker?  
PARKER COTHREN: I'd go with me.   
 Q.  No debate from you?  
PARKER COTHREN: No.   
 Q.  Is that because you're so good or you know Curtis wouldn't be able to handle the pressure?  
PARKER COTHREN: I think he could handle it if he wanted to, but I'm pretty clutch in those type of situations.  I think I could handle it.   
 Q.  All the bowl experiences, you talked about Arizona, you've been enjoying.  You've seen New York City, Florida, you've seen LA -- this is quite a variety of experiences so far the last few years.  Can you talk about that part of it, how much fun you have been able to have as a team, all the places they go to?  
PARKER COTHREN: It's awesome.  Especially being when I was getting recruited to Penn State we didn't know if we would ever be able to get to go to a bowl game.  That second year I was there we were able to go to the Pinstripe Bowl.  We were all thankful.  We had a great time there in New York.   
And then just every year since it's been getting better and better, and it's so much fun.  And this year's no different.  We're having a great time, and the Fiesta Bowl is probably my favorite experience so far.  I think it's awesome.   
 Q.  Last year they were number four; you guys are number five.  They edged you out.  There was a lot of debate between these two teams.  You get to face them head to head now.  They didn't fare so well in the playoffs.  You get to face this team now.  Talk about the fact that you guys get to show what you guys are all about.  You didn't beat USC last year, had a great game.  Get to face Washington.  What kind of motivation do you have in this game to win it?  
PARKER COTHREN: That's all our motivation.  Last year left a sour taste in our mouth at the Rose Bowl.  And that's the last thing we want to happen this year.  We've been working hard ever since they announced who we're playing, we've been studying the film.  We went over their game plan, learning their scheme.  And I think we have a good plan to attack these guys and stop their run and their quarterback.   
 Q.  A lot of people describe both of you guys as being complete teams.  Do you see mirror images when you see some of the stuff that Washington can do, they're balance, can do a lot of things offensively?  
PARKER COTHREN: They're a great team, good offensive line, good receivers, good quarterback, awesome running back.  So they're a complete team; so are we.  I think we've been game planning them, like I said.  I think we will be all right, it will be a good game plan.   
 Q.  Expect it to be a smash mouth game.  Their running game with Gaskin, he's a little bit more physical on film.  What do you see from him and their offensive line and kind of what they want to do in the running game?  
PARKER COTHREN: If you watch the films, pretty easy to tell their offensive line is very physical.  They play hard and we're kind of used to that playing Big Ten.  A lot of offensive lines play that style of football.   
We've been watching them, game planning them.  The running back is very good.  He's quick, runs hard.  So we're trying to contain him, stop the run.  And I think it will be good after that.   
 Q.  Do they kind of remind you of a Big Ten team more than Pac-12 team?  (Indiscernible) Pac-12 team on your mind, spread it out a little bit obviously.  But these guys kind of they build everything off the run?  
PARKER COTHREN: They play more Big Ten style football than the other Pac-12 teams, I think.  So I think it's a good matchup honestly.  I think it will be a good game.   
 Q.  How do you think the defensive line has improved as the year's gone on?  Why are you guys better right now --  
PARKER COTHREN: Just experience.  We had a lot of young guys taking a lot of reps early in the season.  Just with that you just need more experience to play at a higher level.  And I think they've gotten that.  So now it's like we have no freshmen on the team.  Everyone's an upperclassmen, they've played enough snaps that you're confident, you're not as nervous as you are in the first couple of games.  I think that's the most improvement, probably, just experience.   
 Q.  What's the biggest challenge that you see from Jake Browning?  I mean, Myles Gaskin, (indiscernible) running, shifty in the holes, but Browning just has a (indiscernible) pocket?  
PARKER COTHREN: Right, he's very good at extending plays.  That's what we've been talking about, trying to make sure we cage him in the pass rush.  Don't let him spin out and extend the play like he does very well.  So that's really what -- we've been watching him and trying to keep him contained as well as Gaskin.   
 Q.  Does going up against Trace and the other shifty quarterbacks help you prepare against Jake?  
PARKER COTHREN: Absolutely.  We've been going against them all year and both of them are very illusive.  They've been preaching caging the quarterback since camp in August.  So I think all that throughout the year is going to help us out in this game.   
 Q.  Is there another guy that you've played against that you could say, oh, he reminds me of Jake Browning or Jake Browning reminds me of him?  
PARKER COTHREN: No, I'm not going to compare him to anybody.  I think he's a good player.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT