PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 30, 2016
Parker Cothren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  As we look through the depth chart here, we've heard so much about Kevin since the spring.  What have you seen from Kevin Givens and what kind of guy is he, what kind of player?  
PARKER COTHREN: Kevin is a really quiet person outside of football.   But inside of football, he's just big play after another.  He's great explosiveness and great football player.   
 Q.  Has he made a play during camp that kind of stood out to you or anything in particular?  
PARKER COTHREN: He's made plenty of big plays.   It's hard to pinpoint one of them.  But he's in the backfield all the time.   
 Q.  When did you first start to feel like you were really getting comfortable in this leadership role, maybe a starting position on this interior line and also, what kinds of steps have you taken to kind of solidify that spot throughout camp?  
PARKER COTHREN: Well, it's been developing since AJ and Zettel graduated and in camp, we've been working hard as a team and just progressed into the role that it is now.   
 Q.  How excited are you guys to be transitioning from camp and running into the stadium and not hitting the same guys you have been for the past month and firing up against some new players in Kent State?  
PARKER COTHREN: We can't wait.  It's all we've talked about for the past week and a half.  Just ready to hit someone that's not wearing a Penn State jersey.   
 Q.  How has camp been for you guys, and then prepping for this?  What's the mentality of the team, what camp has been like transitioning to this point?  
PARKER COTHREN: Well, it's been a great camp.  The team is in a great place right now.  Everyone is at the top of their game and like I said, everyone's just really excited to get back in Beaver Stadium.   
 Q.  You mentioned AJ and Zettel.  Have you stayed in touch with them?  
PARKER COTHREN: I try to as much as I can without pestering them.  I learned a lot from them, basically everything I know technique-wise.  I've watched them every play for the last three years, basically.   
I just try to pick up on little things that they do and they give me pointers on how to step, how to shoot my hands and how to just keep working to the ball, play to the whistle.   
 Q.  Do you text them at all or do you let them go?  
PARKER COTHREN: I'm kind of letting them go right now.   They are busy doing their own thing.  I'm sure before the game I'll talk to both of them and they will give me a pep talk and all that.   
 Q.  At the start of camp, Coach Franklin mentioned the D-Line and specifically D-tackle is a critical area for the team and yours is the first name that came out of his mouth as far as players he was looking to lead the team and the defense in that spot.  What did that mean to you and how did that shape camp for you?  
PARKER COTHREN: It made me get my mind right.  I worked harder this year than I probably have in the past, having everyone look to me when they have questions, trying to be that guy that AJ and Zettel were to me, to then; taking that leadership role.   
 Q.  When Coach was up here a couple minutes ago, he said that Tyrell Chavis was a guy that you guys have all really started to like, getting to know him a little better.  What can you tell us about him?  We haven't had a chance to get to know him yet.  
PARKER COTHREN: He's a really funny guy.  Everyone on the team loves him.  He came in right at the start of camp and just fit right in with the guys.  Great football player, too.   
 Q.  This is your first time up here.  What don't we know about you, and can you still dunk?  Could you ever dunk?  You lettered three times in basketball.  Can you still do that?  
PARKER COTHREN: Yeah, I can still dunk.  Probably not as good as I used to since I put on more weight.   
 Q.  What was your signature dunk?  
PARKER COTHREN: Signature dunk?  I could 360 back in the day.  I don't know if I could still do that.   
 Q.  Why do you wear 41?  That's kind of an odd number for an inside guy.   It's more of a safety number, I'd say.  
PARKER COTHREN: Yeah, I've worn 41 for basically my whole life in every sport.  It actually started back in elementary school when my favorite channel on TV was 41.  When asked what number I wanted to be, I said 41.   
 Q.  What channel was that?  
PARKER COTHREN: Cartoon Network (Laughter).   
 Q.  What are your hobbies outside of football?  What music do you like?  
PARKER COTHREN: Music, I move around, I like everything from country to hip-hop, all that.   
What was the first question?  I forgot.   
 Q.  What kinds of things are you into outside of football, hobbies?  
PARKER COTHREN: Play video games a lot.  I like to hang out with my roommates and stuff.  We play games together and all that.   
 Q.  Garrett Sickels said you were the best Pokémon Go player on the team.  Is that accurate?  
PARKER COTHREN: That's probably true.  (Laughter) FastScripts by ASAP Sports   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT