NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 13, 2000
Will Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  What's the confidence level of your team right now?
 
WILL CLARK: Well, we're down 2-0, and it's definitely going to be a project, especially here.  But it's something that we have done before, we play well on the road.  We gave them a pretty good battle last night, so we can take some confidence out of that.  
 

Q.  I was reading about how excited you were to be traded.  Was it tough  -- would you tell us what happened that morning?
 
WILL CLARK: That trade was pretty awesome for me.  To go from a team that was 13 games out of first place, a little tough to go to the ballpark every day to be in first place, it was pretty special.  It made it a lot easier to get pumped up and come to the ballpark every day.  As far as that retiring thing, I hadn't really thought about it.  We'll see what happens in the future.  
 

Q.  Were you aware of the Cardinal tradition going back 80 years, winning so many pennants in the National League? How aware have you been of it?
 
WILL CLARK: I think we're definitely aware of it.  We have George Kissell on the bench, Red Schoendist is around quite a bit.  You see Bob Gibson, Lou Brock around from time to time.  Whenever you see greats like that, always around a club, always around a clubhouse, you're very familiar with the tradition and then not only that, they have some awesome stories to tell.  So whenever gentlemen like that decide they want to talk, I'm all ears.  
 

Q.  Do you expect this line-up to break out after facing two lefties and not maybe having the success  --?
 
WILL CLARK: We only scored five runs yesterday, we had plenty of opportunities.  We also had some opportunities in Game 1, too.  One thing we haven't been able to do is come away with that one-two out base hit that's going to open the inning and give us a big inning.  To go out there and battle Hampton and Leiter as tough as we have, I think it's a credit to our ballclub.  I think we've swung the bats pretty well.  We've had good approaches.  We just need to find a way to put more runs than they do.  
 

Q.  What problems can Rick Reed pose for your club?
 
WILL CLARK: Well, he's a quality starter.  He's a quality starter on a very good ballclub.  So wherever you go you run into starters like this and people that have good stuff and you got to do a good job at the plate plus you got to do a good job preparing before you even get up there.  
 

Q.  How hard is it to get over a game like last night when you could have easily been 1-1, it's so different than 0-2?
 
WILL CLARK: I like the fact that the team never gave up yesterday.  They never got down.  Everybody stayed up the whole game, even when Rick was having his problems early in the game.  When we got on the plane last night, I saw a lot of people go to sleep.  That told me that everybody that Tony LaRussa sent out there gave them everything that they had.  They left all they had out on the field last night, and since I've been here, that's the kind of effort that Tony gets, Tony expects, and that's the kind of effort he'll get tomorrow.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT