U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2018
Yuki Moriyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kind of back and forth there at the beginning.  Talk about the round.  
YUKI MORIYAMA: Yeah, had very tough run and he was playing very good.  I play good, I did my best, but he made good putts.  I had a very good game; just a little bit of the luck to win this first match.   
 Q.  You took the lead at 14.  Seemed look you both struggled a little bit on the hole.  
YUKI MORIYAMA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Run me through that.  
YUKI MORIYAMA: 14 was par-4?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
YUKI MORIYAMA: Yeah, so I hit left over on the second shot.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
YUKI MORIYAMA: I knew that that place is -- cannot go there with that pin placement.  Yeah, the pin was on the back right and then has a big slope.  He was in the right bunker and I was guessing I think I lose this hole, because it's tough to make a par.   
But he just topped it a little bit because the bunker was hard; no sand in it.  He came to my place, same exact spot.  And, yeah, that's just a little bit of the luck.  Not like my game.   
 Q.  Then coming into 18 you had the 1-up lead.  What's the mindset when you're about to take the tee shot?  
YUKI MORIYAMA: I was missing to the right on the most driver shot, so I was guessing -- like hoping to not go right.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
YUKI MORIYAMA: Just go left and just send it.  I went straight.   
Second shot I was 208 yards and it was into the wind.  I usually use 5-iron but I use 4-iron, and I did too much of the wind.  I went over.   
That chip shot was -- I tried to go lower side of the green because I don't want to stay on the downhill putt.   
Yeah, he had about same distance par putt and I missed the par putt.  If he makes this it's okay; it's not my fault.  Just keep doing my golf.   
But he very missed it.  Yeah, it was like I said, just the luck.   
 Q.  And then going into tomorrow, round of 32, is there anything you're looking to change or work on?  
YUKI MORIYAMA: I'm thinking to go to driving range to fix my shots, like yesterday.  And then I lost in round 32 in last year, so I want to like going forward to round 16, 8, whatever.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT