NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 22, 2007
Ryan Smyth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I can't believe it was your first All-Star game.  I was shocked when I saw that.  A lot of good years?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  I've had some pretty good years.  We've had pretty good players--Doug Weight and Bill Guerin, he's back.  And Eric Brewer had a good year that one year he came.   
 And we had a few years where we didn't have anybody come, and it's obviously an honor and I want to represent the Oilers well and come out and have fun.   
  
  Q.  Your style of play, moving it out and moving things around, have you been warned how it's played in this game or are you going to deal with the altitude?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  A game of shooting.  That's what I've heard.  I've watched and seen.  It's going to be fun.  I want to get out there and enjoy it.  Obviously I've played with most of these guys and had that luxury in the world champs, the World Cup.  It's a different style than the NHL that way with a bigger rink.  I know this isn't a bigger rink, but it's going to be nice seeing guys like Sidney Crosby and Ovechkin.  And they're young players but excellent players.   
  
  Q.  There's a theory out there with all the young players that are here and a lot of the first-time players here that maybe people won't follow that tradition of (inaudible) might be some young guys going out there creating that?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  I remember the one year Eric Lindros came in, tried to make a statement by hitting.  I'm not recognized as a hitter.  I'll grind out maybe a couple of goals if that's the case.  And just enjoy it.   
 Like really obviously I'm here for a reason, and I want to bring my style of play and still stand in front of the net and create a lot of it that way, too.   
  
  Q.  Thanks very much.  Have you had an opportunity to talk with them at all about next year?   
 RYAN SMYTH: (Inaudible) no.   
  
  Q.  Would you prefer that you (inaudible)?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  I leave that up to Don to discuss.  I'm out of it and Donnie and Kevin hopefully can work something out.   
  
  Q.  Do you wish more would play the game like yourself, more of a (inaudible) guys crashing the net, a more physical game?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  If there was more guys like that, maybe I wouldn't be here.  You know, I think the game's changed a little bit in the sense it's faster.  Guys are still big and strong, but the puck moving, you know, it comes down to goal tending at times.   
 You still need the grittiness in there and mucking it up, getting in the corners, getting in front of the net.   
 So there still is a fair chunk of those players out there.  And I know the game, like I said, has changed a bit in that regards too -- they're looking for guys that are fast.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel a little bit more (inaudible) because of that, the way more and more guys that are fast and play that more often kind of game?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  Yes, obviously I'm a little different style than most in that regard.  But I gotta try to bring an element to the game that benefits my team.   
  
  Q.  It's hard for me to believe that you never wear No. 94.  To me all my life (inaudible) wear 94.  You wear 93.  Any thoughts on that?  94 is your brand.   
 RYAN SMYTH:  No, it's obviously a great honor to be here.  The number doesn't matter.  Obviously I'd love to have it.  But Yanic has more games than I do and I respect that.   
  
  Q.  How about being here after the years you've put in, the things you've done for the National Hockey League, what's it mean to be present playing in the NHL?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  Awesome.  I think it's something I'll cherish forever.  And being recognized and having this opportunity and I just want to go out and represent the Oilers well and have fun with it.   
 These guys, most of the guys I've played with, and I've thoroughly enjoyed every minute on different occasions.   
  
  Q.  Seems fitting you would be here on the world stage playing in NHL given your contract status coming up.  In a way does that (inaudible) exclamation on the fact that you'll be a very popular man come the end of the season?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  It sure doesn't hurt.  But in the same regards, we've still got to go play the games.  We want to make the playoffs and that's the biggest key for the Oilers.  And if it weren't for the opportunity they've given me, I wouldn't be here to this day.   
 So I think things will progress here in the next little while and hopefully things will get done.   
  
  Q.  Physically do you feel like you've played a whole year already, especially this year with the way you've kind of taken a beating to your thumb and everything else?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  Yeah, at times I do.  But the game's changed that much that your body isn't taking as much of a toll.  I know in previous years it was easy to come down here in Dallas and, boy, it would be tough on the body.   
 But with the injury, I've had a 10-game setback and got some times during the season you don't get very often and I didn't have to do a whole lot.  I just got through.  In fact, I rushed and I've benefited in doing that coming back.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible) with all the games you've played last year, that little break?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  Oh, no question.  Any time you get that opportunity in the year to get a little bit of rest, you know, you hate to get injured for that fact, but it's a true -- it's a blessing.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible) first timers here.  Is it the direction that it's going, do you think?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  I think they were mentioning the fact that there's 10 on each side or something like that.  One from each team that they're trying to go at.  I think it's great for the league.  Obviously everybody has their own opinions.  You've got guys that should be here that aren't and guys that maybe shouldn't be here that are -- are on.   
 But like I said, it's all irrelevant.  Everybody here that's here is deserving of it, and it's a matter of going out and enjoying themselves.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you'll get (inaudible) this week, with it being in Dallas and how much of a legacy and the Oilers have here?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  We've got a few of the boys on our side.  Hopefully they'll be cheering for the West side and not just me.   
 Obviously our division has really picked up here.  Colorado, but any one of those three.   
  
  Q.  This has been the team with the most, I guess, recent playoff history which really kind of makes things even more intense, I guess?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  Yeah, it's magnified, no question.  And they're very intense games when that puck drops start to finish.  You know you're going to get goal tending on both ends and fisticuffs every once in a while but (inaudible).   
  
  Q.  It's nice to come in relax, enjoy (inaudible) without worrying about that night's game?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  I know most of the trainers and most of the guys.  It's nice to go in the room and feel at ease now.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT