NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 17, 2006
Fernando Pisani
Ryan Smyth
Raffi Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  That looked that was one of the more one-sided games we have seen with elimination hanging over your heads.  Talk about the energy level and the determination of the club tonight?   
 RAFFI TORRES:  Definitely.  I thought the start was going to be huge for us.  We had the crowd going early, and we wanted to make sure we came out and established our forecheck pretty much the way we finished off in Game 5 there.  So it was definitely a good start for us.  I think that was the big key for the way the game panned out.   
  
  Q.  Looked like the 'Canes were paying a little more attention to you physically and responding.  Do you feel you got under their skin a little bit?   
 RAFFI TORRES:  I don't know.  I'd like to hope so.  I can't really worry about what they are doing out there.  I have said this all along that in order for me to be effective and to help out my team I need to move my feet, finishing my hits and get involved in a smart way.   
 Can't be taking any penalties late in the game there.  I think for Game 7 I will just try and establish that same thing early on.   
  
  Q.  Talking to Ethan Moreau, I smiled and said he's like a little Wendal Clark (ph)?   
 RAFFI TORRES:  Hey, I love Wendal Clark.  Growing up, he's a great player to be kind of talked after, but I don't know, I am just trying to do whatever we can out there.  There's tons of players on our team that you can name them after just what they have done throughout this whole run we have had, so it's a little flattering but at the same time it's funny.   
  
  Q.  Raffi, both Ethan Moreau, as well as Staios suggested that this team can play better do you agree with them?   
 RAFFI TORRES:  We always think we can play better.  I think we got them right where we want them, but at the same time we can't get overexcited out there because they are that dangerous out there.   
 I thought at some points during the game we weren't getting the puck out of our zone and you could see how it cost us they were getting the pucks to the net and one bounced the opposite way it could be a different game.  So I think we'll just try and carry the same type of game.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, talk about the performance looked like a very dominant performance?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  I thought we did a great job for 60 minutes once again.  I thought our power play did a good job moving it around.  We kind of got what we wanted on it.  Jussi played great for us.  Once again -- and I think we just did a good job ever getting it in deep, getting to the puck first, making plays down low and just getting pucks to the net.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, how does it feel to be turning into some sort of hometown folk hero?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  I don't know about that.  Obviously, any time you contribute on the ice it's obviously great feeling.  And, you know, just want to continue that and carry it into Monday night's game.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, when you shoot now do you expect it to go in?  I mean, it's unccanny almost?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Well, the goal tonight was deflection off Ward's skate, so it was pretty lucky bounce, and it went in the top glove there, so you know it was just a good lucky bounce there.   
  
  Q.  You had this look on your face when you went past the bench to give everybody the high fives, just almost like disbelief of yourself.  What is it like for you, the feeling right after you score yet another goal and yet another big game, what -- is it almost disbelief that this keeps happening?   
 FERNANDO PISANI:  Well, I don't think it's disbelief.  It seems like it's just you are in the right spot at the right time and a lot -- in a lot of situations they seem to be going in.  Linemates have been doing a great job of finding me in the slot there.   
 Hemmer makes a great pass in the high slot there and I just kind of spin and shoot and it goes off a defensive skate and goes in the net.  Can't ask for a better opportunity there.   
  
  Q.  Ryan, comment on what the power play gave you tonight and the importance of that.   
 RYAN SMYTH:  Obviously, capitalizing on the power play.  It's been struggling early on in the series and it's been the difference thus far in the last two games and it's given us the momentum and we're finding different opportunities, different holes.  Obviously Pisani came up through the slot there.   
 That makes an adjustment for our D to either step up on him or hold up on me in front of the net or Raffi Torres.   
So these sort of things, like I said, give us momentum.  Especially here at home it's a good feeling.   
  
  Q.  Ryan, when you were down 3-1, a lot of people thought this team was finished.  Now you are playing a Game 7.  What has been the motivation?  What has kept you guys going every night when so many times you were written off particularly this some other rows?   
 RYAN SMYTH:  Guys in the lock room.  We all talk about belief.  We all talk about urgency.  The will to win and never quitting and keeping positive through the whole situation.  And, you know, like I said before, we have given ourselves an opportunity to play in Game 7.  And, you know, it's few and far between to get to a place like this in your career, so we'll obviously make the most of it and we'll do our best to put our names on the Cup.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT