VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 19, 2012
Hunter Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HUNTER HAAS: I didn't drive the ball that well but my irons kept me it in.   I caught a good one and flushed it down there and the caddy today told me we're down there this far, you better go for it.

Q.   It's such a skinny little target of a green with the hazards on the right-hand side.
HUNTER HAAS:   I was kind of in between clubs and I decided to hit just a little easy cut 3-wood and just came off perfect.

Q.   What was the number?
HUNTER HAAS:   217.

Q.   And then to bury the eagle putt.   Not a gimme 5-footer.   Also a shot to remember.
HUNTER HAAS:   Sure.   It's nice to finish off a round like that.   It's been awhile.   I've had a few good rounds this year and keep doing the rest of the week.

Q.   Really rough track.   You're bogey-free.
HUNTER HAAS:   It's very nice.   It's nice to walk off 18 holes anytime without any bogies.

Q.   Anything to let you know this round was on its way in your warm-ups or anything?
HUNTER HAAS:   No.   I've been preparing well all week and just a matter of letting it happen.

Q.   Good job.   Enjoy it.
HUNTER HAAS:   Thanks.

Q.   That shot, lot of discussion this week about how difficult this track is.   What did you see out there today that fits your eye so well?
HUNTER HAAS:   Well, I had played well last year and -- sometimes you get on courses and it just seems like it's hard to make birdies, but this course seems like I got the ability to get it in place, get it down the fairway and get on the green and make birdies.

Q.   I don't know what he wants me to do.
HUNTER HAAS:   Yeah.

Q.   Lot of guys are a little bit intimidated.
HUNTER HAAS:   They slowed the greens down from last year and that's actually made, I think, play a little bit easier but it is blowing a little bit.   Just enough where it's affecting shots out there.

Q.   Do you allow yourself to look at weather forecasts?
HUNTER HAAS:   You got to.   Rain?

Q.   Yes, chance of storms tomorrow.   I was just curious.
HUNTER HAAS:   I pay more attention to the wind and that aspect but, sure.   We've got to pay attention or you're going to leave your umbrella in the locker.

Q.   Cameron was saying he knew tomorrow was looking kind of iffy.   You tend to feel a little impetus to make sure you're on your game?
HUNTER HAAS:   You do that and put too much pressure on yourself and come out here and stumble.   That's not what you want to do.   You prepare for this round and go on to the next day.

Q.   Great shot.
HUNTER HAAS:   Thank you. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT