JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 30, 2011
Hunter Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously you knew what was at stake on that final hole. Course record, possible 59. 
 HUNTER HAAS: Sure. Walking up I told Dave, my caddy, I said, at least I gave myself a look at it, or a putt at it. Sounds a little better. But 120 feet is kind of pushing it. But I'm happy with the way I played.

 Q. It's an understatement. You share the course record. You shoot 10-under 61, 10 shots better than the opening round. What was the difference?
 HUNTER HAAS: I made 10 more putts.

 Q. I understand that. What was the reason you made 10 more putts?
 HUNTER HAAS: I was burning it pretty good yesterday, but honestly, I just wasn't happy with the way I hit my wedges yesterday, and I was a little frustrated, but I hit probably three or four shots pretty close today, and I just felt good over the putt. 

 Q. You hit 16 of 18 greens, so your ball striking had to be good as well. 
 HUNTER HAAS: Sure. Sure. The one bogey I had I was in the middle of the fairway, and it's kind of like yesterday I made two bogeys from the middle of the fairway with wedge in my hand, and that's kind of disappointing. I did the same today. That's three bogeys with a wedge in my hand.

 Q. You come into the Fall Series in a little bit of a strange position. You've already secured your card. You've won more than $900,000. You're 88th on the Money List, but there's still a lot to play for this month of tournaments. 
 HUNTER HAAS: Sure. There is. There's a lot of loot to be taken.

 Q. Well, you got your hand in the cookie jar right now after shooting 61. Congratulations. 
 HUNTER HAAS: Thanks.

 Q. When you woke up this morning and knew what the situation was, did you have a number in mind? And I know that number wasn't 10. 
 HUNTER HAAS: No. 

 Q. But was there a number in mind?
 HUNTER HAAS: No. I'm not thinking about numbers. Honestly, I'm just thinking about making putts out here. Four weeks off I felt like I practiced good and I felt like I prepared myself good for this fall. 
 You know, it's kind of hard. It's a transition. Do I go play a Nationwide event or do I -- I felt like I got my work in and what I needed to do, and yesterday it just didn't really pay off. I just didn't make any putts.

 Q. Is there anything specific you've been working on on the practice greens to kind of give you the tempo back where whatever --
 HUNTER HAAS: I changed my setup a little bit. My grip's always been fairly weak, but it's just the way I set up, and I finally got comfortable, and I just stuck with it and got in a routine.

 Q. How much did play in the morning help from the quality of greens standpoint? Must have been substantially better than playing in the afternoon and dealing with it after everyone's trampled all over the place. 
 HUNTER HAAS: Well, it's always a little easier in the morning, but it's not to say that they were really bumpy yesterday afternoon. That's not the reason why I missed putts. 
 More so speed and alignment and setup. So I'm happy with the change I had this morning.

 Q. Plus it was so hot yesterday, too. How did you handle the heat personally?
 HUNTER HAAS: I don't know. I was just waiting for that cold shower.

 Q. Was it pretty tough out there, though?
 HUNTER HAAS: I just kept drinking a lot of water. I think I drank at least 10 ounces a hole.

 Q. When you made that run on the front side, on the back five straight, did you get the sense that you could be doing something special today or were you just focusing on each hole and just trying to stay right?
 HUNTER HAAS: Well, a little bit of both. Ball striking I'm still trying to tighten up my ball striking. I hit a few errant shots, but there's a lot of short irons out there on this golf course. If you drive your ball well, you're probably going to have a lot of birdie opportunities.

 Q. Could you sense that some of the spectators were picking up? Was your gallery growing as you went further?
 HUNTER HAAS: Those people aren't coming out here to follow me. 

 Q. Well, you have a chance to make history. 
 HUNTER HAAS: Sure. I know I had a chance. After I birdied the fourth or fifth hole, you know, at the par-3 I knew I had at least three good birdie opportunities coming in. And I screwed it up. 

 Q. Yeah, but you're playing tomorrow and that's the big thing, because this morning you weren't sure if you were playing tomorrow. Now you know you're playing tomorrow. You're in the mix. 
 HUNTER HAAS: Yeah, sure.

 Q. And you'll just keep trying to make putts. I guess that's the plan?
 HUNTER HAAS: We'll see if I can go out and do what I did today tomorrow. And it was tough, but I'm just going to keep doing what I've been doing.

 Q. You get the chance. That's all that matters. 
 HUNTER HAAS: It's just a matter of making putts. That's all that matters out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT