PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 11, 2011
Hunter Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What have you done well so far this week? Anything particular?
 HUNTER HAAS: Wow. I'm hitting the ball pretty good. It hasn't got to me, actually, in these conditions. 
 But last week was more extreme than this, and I dealt with the constant grind of hitting shots and controlling the ball, and I think I kind of continued on from last week, and I'm controlling my iron shots into the greens. 
 I feel like I'm putting well, well enough to win right now, where maybe three, four weeks ago I wasn't. But you know, it's just kind of one of those things. You're hitting it good and you feel like you're putting good, and just get the ball in the fairway, and you know, I don't know. This course just sets up for my eye. I like it. First time playing here. What can I say? 

 Q. Does everything kind of feel a little bit easier after the grind of last week?
 HUNTER HAAS: Yeah. Sure. Last week you could have a three-club win. Today it's probably the strongest I've seen it here, but it's still not close to it. It's at the most two. 
 You know, today's round was similar to yesterday's round except for a bogey. Honestly, I feel like I've left probably half a dozen shots out there. That being said, I'm not satisfied where I'm at personally, but in regards to the rest of the field, I'm feeling good. I'm just going to keep playing and try to expand on the last two days and focus on the weekend. 

 Q. Any long ones out there, any birdies or anything out of the ordinary?
 HUNTER HAAS: No. I hit a couple close and then just your standard. I had a couple long lag putts that I got away with. You're talking 60, 65 feet. Putting it up there within a foot is pretty good. That makes it a lot easier going into the next hole. You're not grinding, constant grind on the green. You don't want to have a bunch of three, four-footers for par all day on the back. 
 But you know, I'm happy with the way I played. So just gotta keep hitting it good.

 Q. What does last year do for you as far as having a real good year?
 HUNTER HAAS: Well, it did a lot of things. You know, I kind of struggled for a couple of years. I knew I could do it. It's just a matter of relaxing and letting it happen. I know it's kind of cliche, but it's really the truth. You push yourself too hard; sometimes you just gotta stand back and take it for what it is. 

 Q. Is there anything in particular that kind of gave you that realization?
 HUNTER HAAS: I putted well, and you know, I won on two different golf courses, and one of them being a pretty difficult golf course. And the scores I shot made me think, you know, it's not as hard as I've been trying to make it. So just relax and let it go. 
 And I felt like coming off last year, you know, I was removed from out here for five years, but I've definitely put in my time and learned my lesson in 10 years playing, playing the sport. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT