NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS VS. BUCKS
May 21, 2019
Serge Ibaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Raptors - 120, Bucks - 102   
 Q.  Do you think this was your team's most complete effort when you look at the contributions from yourself and especially in the second unit and the impact that you guys had.  
SERGE IBAKA: I think so.  This playoff so far, yes.  We need it from -- our team need it from us, you know, coming off the bench to bring some energy and defensive intensity and score some points to help our starting lineup.  I think it was big time for us tonight.   
 Q.  We were talking with Nick before the game about offensive rebounding and how dangerous it can be given how good they are on transition.  What's your mindset when deciding to go in for rebounds versus getting back, and how were you able to succeed on that tonight?  
SERGE IBAKA: Like Nick say, sometimes it can be very tricky to go on an offensive rebound, and you have to be careful.  When you're playing against this team, Giannis is so good in transition, in open court.  I said sometimes you have to choose, are you going, or you have to go get back early and help your teammates?  So it's just been my mindset.  You know what, I'm just going to go.  If I'm down, I'm going to stay down for offensive rebound; and if I'm out, I'm going to go try to get back earlier.   
 Q.  When you see Kawhi kind of hobbling and grimacing out there during the game, do you notice that?  What do you think he's going through in the time out there on the floor?  
SERGE IBAKA: I didn't know, I didn't know what is going on.  You know Kawhi, he plays at his own pace, and sometimes it's hard to know.  But at some point I felt maybe he's going a little too much.  So I ask somebody on the bench, and when I heard that, I thought, oh, wow.   
You have to give him a lot of credit, man.  He's a tough guy.  Just him being on the court, it help us a lot.  I think he did understand what's going on, and he said, you know what, I'm just going to be out there and create attention and leave it open for my teammates.   
 Q.  At times over these playoffs, the bench unit has not produced the way they have at various times during the year.  Do you guys kind of take it personally at times and want to make a statement in a game like this?  
SERGE IBAKA: Oh, yeah, we have to take it personal.  We're here for a reason.  It's not by mistake we're here, and we show during the season what the bench can do. And then when we have a couple games where we can't really play our best basketball or we can't really help our team, we take that personal, everybody.  We come the next day, we watch film.  We stay on the court.  We take extra shots, just to try to come back and be better, like we did tonight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT