NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 21, 2016
Serge Ibaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Serge, as you guys looked at the film, what are some core areas you guys want to do better in Game 3?
SERGE IBAKA: We just try to get better.  We saw the film, and we saw those things we didn't do good in the last game, and we're going to work on it.  We've been working on it the last two days, so, you know, just try to get better next game.
Q. You guys got just about all the 50-50 balls in Game 1.  They seem to get them in Game 2?
SERGE IBAKA: Yeah.
Q. How does that shake out?  Why does that happen differently from Game 2?
SERGE IBAKA: They're just starting better than us.  They are playing tougher than us.  You know, they were more aggressive than us, so I think that's why.  It's more a game.  We have to do a better job of starting aggressive, and just play our basketball.
Q. You're not shooting it nearly as much in the fourth quarter during the postseason as you did in the regular season.  Is there a reason for that or is it just kind of random?
SERGE IBAKA: No, with all the respect I got for you, I don't have the answer for that one.  I don't know how to answer that, so, yep.
Q. The starts and the turnovers --
SERGE IBAKA: Say it again, please?
Q. The turnovers early in the ballgame?
SERGE IBAKA: Yeah.  Yes, we saw on the film and we worked on it yesterday, and today that's one of the things we're going to try to do better next game.  We've been there before.  Russell, you know, he knows his job.  He's going to try to do a better job tomorrow to keep the team in better rhythm, you know, early in the game.
Q. How much does Russ set the tone for you guys on both ends?
SERGE IBAKA: Yes, that's his job.  He has to do it, you know.  He's our point guard.  He's our leader on the team.  When he can do that, you know, he makes everybody to be focused on their job.
Q. Would you say you guys made a lot of adjustments going into this game or just maybe a few tweaks?
SERGE IBAKA: Oh, you know, a few things.  You know, the key is we can watch the film, and we can't say oh, we need to switch this one, we need to change this one.  But the reality is they were playing tougher than us.  They were tougher, they were more aggressive than us.  That's something you can't always watch on film and can't always change.  It's mentally.  I think it's something we have to do next game.
Q. Do you guys talk about that a lot?
SERGE IBAKA: Yes, sir.
Q. Serge, you say they were tougher and aggressive.  As a big guy, do you take that personally?
SERGE IBAKA: Of course, you take it personally.  It makes us feel like we're soft, we're weak, you know what I'm saying?  So that's why I say again, we have to do a better job next game and be aggressive, make sure if they're going to score those baskets, that's hurting them.  They have to work hard to get us.
Q. You guys usually have an advantage on the glass.  Was that a weird feeling to have them outrebound you?
SERGE IBAKA: Yes.  It's kind of weird, yes.  It's kind of weird, especially for us, playing bigs.  They're small.  It's kind of weird.  But give them a lot of credit, because they're the best team in the game, so they're going to come, they're going to come play.  It's not going to be easy.
Q. For you, who gives you the most trouble on that team?  Is it Boges [Bogut], Draymond?
SERGE IBAKA: It's no one player, they're a good team.  There's no one player.  The way they play, the way they move, they're a great team.  I have to give them credit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT