WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2014
Daniel Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CHARDY/D. Cox
  6‑2, 7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   How tough was that today?   Was it tough as you expected?
DANIEL COX:   Yeah, the start was actually really tough because obviously with nerves and everything I did find it quite hard to start with. 
And playing a guy like Jeremy, he's got such a big game so he doesn't give me much rhythm anyway.
So, yeah, was very tough. 

Q.   Chaps like yourself and James Ward, you fight tenaciously to reach the standards of Andy Murray.   Can you explain sort of to the once‑a‑year visitors to Wimbledon just how difficult it is to raise your game or be in front of the home crowd?
DANIEL COX:   Yeah, it's incredibly tough.   To get here is incredibly tough.   You know, unless you actually play the game, you don't sometimes realize how tough it is.
So even being here is an achievement for me.   Even though I wanted to win today, I am disappointed for sure.   But playing this tournament just makes you want to play these tournaments day in, day out.
So it's good motivation for me.   You know, I've tried so hard since I came back from wrist surgery in mid‑2012; didn't start until February 2013.   To be here is a good achievement.

Q.   Does Andy Murray's success, particularly last year, does that actually add a pressure to the rest of the British players?
DANIEL COX:   No.   Actually, I think took it off a little bit.   You know, finally we got a British champion again, so I think the pressure was off a little bit.   Yeah. 

Q.   Your friends I think were pretty vocal on court today.   Did you notice them?   Were you aware?   Did that help? 
DANIEL COX:   Yeah, yeah.   Always helps.   I like my friends being around and them cheering me on.   It was really nice, yeah.

Q.   There were seven breaks in the last set. 
DANIEL COX:   Yeah. 

Q.   What do you put that down to? 
DANIEL COX:   Well, at the beginning of the fourth he actually just went for it and didn't miss.
I mean, I got broken the first game.   I don't I think I won any points until the first two games of the fourth set.
I don't think I did too much wrong.   I think if you watch back, I think he just played really well.
And then I think he started to maybe get a little bit tired maybe.   I don't know.   Then I broke him back twice.   Then I actually got a little bit nervous because I thought maybe, you know, I could have a chance again.
Then at the end of the fourth set, he went for it again and it went in again, so...

Q.   How big a part do you think nerves played today for you?
DANIEL COX:   Yeah, you know, playing the biggest tournament in the world, I mean, it's what kids dream of.   This is always what I've dreamed of.   Obviously it's my second time.
First time I played here it was very tough mentally, very nerve wracking.   And also, this time it was at the start, but then I slowly relaxed in the second, third, and fourth.

Q.   Do you wish it could have gone on a bit longer? 
DANIEL COX:   Yeah, exactly.   I mean, I wish I didn't get so you nervous in the fourth set.   I think I would have felt quite confident in the fifth set.
That's tennis.   You just have to move on now and look forward to the next tournament.

Q.   When you play as well as you did winning that set, can you explain to people how difficult it is to sustain that standard against a player of his experience? 
DANIEL COX:   Yeah, you know, he's been 25 in the world.   He won junior Wimbledon when he was a junior, so he's not a stranger on the grass.   To be consistent against these guys incredibly stuff.
Chardy has a big game.   He doesn't give you any rhythm at all.   He hits the ball so hard.   Sometimes he can make you look a little bit silly out there when he just goes for it.
He's 40 in the world, and he has been for probably the last five years.   So, yeah, incredibly tough. 

Q.   There has been a lot of focus on the increased prize money and things like that, and I suppose tied into the changes the LTA has made.   I'm guessing from what you're saying it's absolutely hard earned, really. 
DANIEL COX:   Yeah, you know, I've tried really hard this year.   You know, obviously the prize money, you know, will help to fund my travel‑‑ well, as good as for the next sort of three, four months, maybe six months if I can stretch it that far.   Financially it's just very tough.
I don't think people realize how tough it is financially.   We don't all earn 27,000 pounds in two weeks.   It is very tough.   I have to pay for coach to come away, his flights, my flights, his food, my food. 
Some tournaments you get hotels, but low stage of professional tennis you don't.
That's why I think it's incredibly tough.   British guys have been quite fortunate in the past that the LTA has been able to provide support for a lot of players.

Q.   Is it a question of in some ways pouring over the books and making everything balance out? 
DANIEL COX:   Yeah.   I think the LTA have made a good balance now.   Obviously they have got this LTA bonus scheme now which sort rewards you for how well you do performance‑wise.
No, it is kind of a good motivation.   Rather than just being given it, you have to go out and earn it.   I think it has changed a lot people's mental attitude towards tennis, yeah.

Q.   What's your take then on this chap Bedene from Slovenia who wants to adopt Britain, if you like, as his tennis nationality.   Other sports do it.   Is there any reason why it shouldn't happen in tennis?
DANIEL COX:   No.   I mean, he's a good friend of mine.   I've known him since I was a junior.   Even maybe long as under‑14s I've known him.   Yeah, training at the same academy as me.
I don't see it being a problem.   You know, why not?   If it helps our chances in Davis Cup, perfect. 

Q.   You've known him then since you were 14.   He's lived here a long time then?
DANIEL COX:   Yeah.   He's lived here a long time with his girlfriend as well.   Why not?   I mean, it's only good for British tennis if we have more players.   I can only see it as being a positive. 
I can see why people will kind of be against it.   Maybe he's played for Slovenia before, and maybe some people will be saying, Well, he's doing it for financial reward.
But, you know, at the end of the day, there are rules there, so it can happen.

Q.   You've seen a commitment to Britain and I suppose everything that goes with it from him. 
DANIEL COX:   Yeah.   He speaks fluent English.   He's lived here a long time.   He's very passionate.   At the academy with all the other British players he always helps out.   He helps out with even the little kids there.
No, he's a really nice person.   I don't have a problem with it. 

Q.   Dan Evans is the one that's been fairly vocal about it.   He goes long along with what you are saying, the fact that he's not British is what he objects to. 
DANIEL COX:   Yeah, I mean, there is a fine line.   Obviously the rules are set in play.   He's eligible to play for Great Britain.   The rules are there, so I don't think we should have a problem with it.
I don't know.   Obviously that will maybe make him British No. 3 depending on his ranking.   I don't know if that has something to do with it.
You know, I just really don't see it being a problem.   If a guy wants to play for this country if he's eligible, then why not?   Same with football, other sports. 

Q.   So just to be clear then, if he's not breaking any rules, why should we have a problem with him?   People who are outspoken or have a problem with it, their problem is really with the rules?
DANIEL COX:   Yeah.   Shouldn't go against him.   He's done nothing wrong.   If the rules are set in there, all the people that have something against it then should be complaining to the people that set the rules.
You know, the rules are there.   I've always followed rules and tried to follow rules, so I have no problem with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT