PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 12, 2014
Angus Brandt
Roberto Nelson
Craig Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Coach, an opening statement, please?
COACH ROBINSON:   Well, you can't play a really good team like that and play one half.   I thought in this first half we did a good job on them defensively or at least an adequate job on them defensively. 
Then in the second half we just couldn't stop them, and that's a tribute to them running through their stuff.   When you play an NCAA tournament team like that, you're going to have to guard a little bit better.   So that was disappointing.   In addition to this being the last Pac‑12 tournament that I'm going to have, these two guys sitting next to me, it's a little bit disappointing‑‑ a lot bit disappointing.   But I couldn't be more proud of these guys and what they've done to turn the culture around at this program to help get this thing jump started in the right direction.   So with that, I'll open it up for questions.

Q.   It's not often a team shoots 60% and loses.   What do you think was a result of that or cause of that? 
ANGUS BRANDT:   I think we just didn't play good enough on defense.   We let them have a great second half offensively just by us shooting 60%.   They shot the ball extremely well also.   Yeah, we just let them in on defense a couple times, and they're a great offensive team and they showed it. 
ROBERTO NELSON:   I just think their second half, like Coach said, I think we played a really good first half, but they came out and looking at the numbers, they shot 80% in the second half.   You can't shoot 60% the first half or shoot 60% throughout the game and have them come out and be that hot in the second half and making all those field goals that they did.   
             So I just think that we've got to make it a little bit tougher for them, and that is the way it went.   They're a team that's high‑tempo, gets a lot of shots up, and if they're making them, they can get on fire.   So we just probably had to do a little better job of contesting their shots and making them make a harder shot.
COACH ROBINSON:   We helped them out a little bit with the number of turnovers we had.   When you play good teams you can't turn the ball over that much and expect to be in it, nor can you miss your foul shots.   I don't think the foul shots hurt us because it was pretty even there.   So it was really the turnovers and being able to stop them from doing what they wanted to do.

Q.   Roberto, how much have those turnovers that have been a continuing problem for you guys kind of drag you down? 
ROBERTO NELSON:   Yeah, those have been the down fall for us so far.   I think, especially with a team like this, we had such a high‑tempo, when you turn the ball over, they're getting easy lay‑ups in transition.   I think we have to do a better job of securing the ball. 
We want to continue to play, so going into these next games we've got to be conscious of that and really limit those turnovers so the opposing team doesn't get breakaway lay‑ups and stuff like that.

Q.   How did Young kind of get going, and what kind of kept you guys from slowing him down tonight? 
ROBERTO NELSON:   Young's a great player.   I think he went 8 for 11.   We've got to play a lot better defense.   I think he was getting some easy lay‑ups at the basket and wide open shots.   I think that has a lot to do‑‑ that's my fault, got to play a lot better defense.   I lost him a few plays, and all he needs is a few buckets to get going.   He's a guy that when he scores, he can score at will. 
So if you can keep him quiet for a while, he won't score.   But he got a few easy lay‑ups that got him going.   So I think I just had to do a better job of contesting him and making his life a little harder.

Q.   Angus, if the NIT doesn't end up selecting you guys, do you want to keep playing? 
ANGUS BRANDT:   Absolutely.   We're not done playing basketball yet.   We feel like we've got plenty of games left in us.   We definitely want to play in the NIT.   That would be our preference.   But if that's not the case, we're going to accept whatever we get.

Q.   Roberto, what do you think about that? 
ROBERTO NELSON:   I'm kind of saying what Angus says.   I'm just echoing what he says.   We want to play in the NIT.   If not, we'll continue to play wherever.   But our goal is we're trying to play in the NIT.   So whatever happens, happens.   We'll continue to play, and we'll continue to fight.

Q.   Coach, could you summarize their feelings about that? 
COACH ROBINSON:   Yeah, sure.   These guys are running the show.   They're seniors now and they're not coming back.   I listen to them.   We want to keep playing.   We want to keep this thing going.   It's still a process for us.   While we had an 8‑10 record, which I think is the second time this group has done that and the third time we've done it since 1993, we want to keep playing and see where we can go.   It would have been nice to keep playing in this tournament and make it to the NCAA tournament.   All right, so we didn't do that.   So whatever comes up next, we'll be happy to participate and be participating fully.

Q.   Are you going to pretty much leave that up to your players what is next for your team as far as what tournament you play in? 
COACH ROBINSON:   I don't really think it's up to us.   I think the NIT is invitational, and the CBI is invitational.   So we want to play.   So we'll just see if anybody wants us to play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT