BLUE BAY LPGA
November 8, 2017
Sun Young Yoo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were bogey in your first round.  What was working well for you?  
SUN YOUNG YOO: Pretty much everything.  I hit a lot of good putts and a lot of good irons, like inside a hundred yards.  I think my wedge game was really good today, and didn't make any mistakes.  Pretty solid overall.   
 Q.  So maybe talk about your birdies.  You had seven birdies today.  Can you tell us about the last two birdies?  
SUN YOUNG YOO: So I finished on the front nine, and No. 8 was a par 5.  I had 85 yards to the pin and hit it about six feet, a little bit more than six feet, so I made that.   
The last hole, I had 124 to the pin and I hit 9-iron about a little bit more than ten feet and I made that putt.  It was nice to finish with birdie.   
 Q.  What changed coming into this week and shooting 7-under?  
SUN YOUNG YOO: I don't know, swing-wise, I kept the same thing.  I just tried to have fun out there, and actually I had a lot of fun today.  Not too much going on.  I like it.   
 Q.  So you have two wins on the LPGA Tour, but not since 2012.  What's happened?  
SUN YOUNG YOO: I mean, everybody goes through up and downs.  I saw a lot of positive things in myself today, so hopefully I can get it going.   
 Q.  I think maybe you are playing in your third year here.  What do you think about the golf course?  
SUN YOUNG YOO: Yeah, it's a nice golf course.  Even we had a lot of rain, it's fine.  The fairways and greens were in good shape.  It was a little bit windy but it's always windy here.  I don't mind that.  Hopefully I can good the next couple days.   
 Q.  What are the keys here, short game or approach shots?  
SUN YOUNG YOO: It's windy here, so I think to keep it low a little bit is kind of key.  I think the greens are kind of big and a little bit slopey, so I want to make sure that I hit the right spot on the greens.  I think that's important.   
 Q.  7-under, how would you rate that today?  One to ten?  
SUN YOUNG YOO: It's got to be ten.  I'm pretty happy with it.  7-under, I take it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT