NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
April 4, 2018
Shaka Browne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Shaka Browne was selected by Jazz Gaming with the No. 3 overall pick in the 2018 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is Yeah I Compete.
SHAKA BROWNE: There are a lot of Hall-of-Famers down there.  Right now they have a young team that's in the Playoffs on the horizon, so there's a lot of great things going on in Utah right now.
Q. You went third. Did you think there was a chance you were going one, or was Dimez the pick?
SHAKA BROWNE: I felt like Dimez was pretty much a lock.  I felt like me and FAB kind of gave him a little something, but I felt like he was a lock.
Q. Through the draft process were the Jazz the team that you thought you'd have a chance to go to?
SHAKA BROWNE: Yes.  Boston and Utah were the two teams I thought might take a shot at me, the two teams I spoke to the most, so I definitely thought after Boston selected FAB that Utah might take a chance on me.
Q. And you three guys, obviously awesome point guards.  Can you talk a little bit about your games?  How are you similar?  How are you different?  Do you guys ever compete?
SHAKA BROWNE: So me -- it's funny, me, Dimez and FAB have all played together before, so we take a little bit of each other's games and add it to our games.  We can score the ball at point guard, but we all can pass.  So I think that as a point guard, it's infectious.  We can uplift everyone around us, so I think that's the kind of guy you want to have on the court, a guy that can do everything.
Q. How much do you learn from the NBA for playing NBA 2K?
SHAKA BROWNE: Yeah, so first, I watch a lot of NBA.  I'm a big, huge NBA fan, so I take a lot of things that I watch on a daily basis in the NBA and apply it to NBA 2K.  There's a lot of similarities, so I definitely feel like playing NBA 2K, I've taken a lot of things from the NBA and I've applied it to my game, and it's really helped me.
Q. Being from New York, how does it feel to get drafted?
SHAKA BROWNE: Man, the feeling is indescribable.  When I first heard that it would be here, it was like a dream come true.  I've been here my whole life.  I haven't been to the Garden too many times, so the fact that I'm here and it's like an event that is around me, it's like, who would have thought, my whole family is watching, all my friends from Mount Vernon, and I live in a small neighborhood, seeing me make it, I just want to hope that this kind of thing could pave the way for other guys to believe that if you have a true passion, to stick with it and it could take you out some day.
Q. Mount Vernon is a hotbed of high school basketball, the McCray brothers, I think Donald Russell was a Mount Vernon guy.  How do you stack up against those guys in the real game?
SHAKA BROWNE: Well, on the real court, I'd probably have to give the credit to my brother.  He's the talented guy on the court.  I kind of play casually just to stay in shape.  But those guys are great, man.  I have a lot of respect for those guys.  But my brother probably has them.  He's probably close to them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT