THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   An on‑course commentator described your round as clinical and impressive, how would you describe it? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, most of it was impressive and good.   Putted a little better today, too.   The only blemish was the double bogey, when I double‑hit my chip shot.   But you know, that can happen out here.   You get such long grass, if you're a little bit off‑‑ and the ball was sitting up, so I must have caught it high on the clubface, and hit it again on the follow‑thru.   It's a terrible feeling but can't change it now.

Q.   You're renowned for your course management.   How much are you enjoying plotting your way around this course?
BERNHARD LANGER:   This is an extremely interesting golf course because you have so many options.   You can play somewhat safe with a hybrid or some kind of iron off the tee but then you have a huge club into the green, and you can be aggressive, play it on the bunkers, play it on the doglegs, and you know, have less club into the green, but you get punished severely if you're off.   I was fortunate to drive the ball really well and give myself opportunities.

Q.   How excited about the possibilities over the weekend? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, I love the position I'm in right now, and it's been playing some good golf, really good golf the last two days.   Yesterday my putting wasn't so brilliant, but today, that was a lot better, so I'm looking forward to the weekend. 

Q.   This was a golf course that was not treating you very well through your regular tour experience; why so good now? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I'm striking the ball very nicely now.   I don't know what happened to me in the regular British Opens that I played here, but probably some of my driving wasn't up to par.   And you get punished so severely here, if you're off‑line, and that was one of my strengths so far.   I've been hitting a lot of fairways, giving myself opportunities to attack certain pins or at least get the ball on the green and make par. 

Q.   Your thoughts on how it's worked out today please, sir. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Had a good day, played like the weather, pretty good, and just had one little blemish with a double‑bogey where I missed the green and double‑hit my chip shot, pitched out of the long grass.   Otherwise it was a really good round.   Hit a lot of good shots and putted much better today.   Very pleased with the position I'm in at the halfway point. 

Q.   Presumably it can feel like a very little blemish, because you can discard it and know that you are in a good position?
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, you know, you get the best you can on every shot.   You have to forgive yourself when you don't pull it off the way you had planned it.   Out here, it's going to happen, sooner or later, everybody gets punished by this kind of rough and the bunkers and just the horrible lies you can find if you're off the fairway. 

Q.   Have you got better at forgiving yourself as you've grown older?
BERNHARD LANGER:   I probably have, yeah.   Still sometimes I still make rookie mistakes, what I call rookie mistakes, but that wasn't a rookie mistake today.   That was just tough luck.

Q.   How is the course playing, because it seems beautiful, and yet it's still hugely challenging, isn't it?
BERNHARD LANGER:   It sure is.   The people might think, well, there isn't a great deal of wind, and there has not been, ten miles an hour or whatever, 12, but it makes a world of difference.   Every bit of breeze out here, and today we played a totally different golf course to what I had seen so far. 
You know, I arrived Monday and played several practice rounds, and the Pro‑Am and yesterday.   Today was a total opposite wind and a totally opposite golf course in terms of clubs and off the tee and into the green.   So you just have to really think on every shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT