THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2018
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on today's round?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, there was a lot of good in it.  Just some putts I would love to have back.  Made a bunch of 3-putts.  Missed a couple of short ones, but it's very uncomfortable in the wind.  Everything, the ball is oscillating.  I guess the long putter is not great in very strong wind.  It's probably a little bit harder.  I was thrilled about the putt I made on 17, but then making bogey on 18 leaves a sour note coming off the course.   
 Q.  You're going to be chasing the lead in what looks to be similar conditions, maybe even worse, with some rain tomorrow.  What attitude do you bring to the golf course when you're chasing on Sunday?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, you have to bring a good attitude no matter what, whether you're chasing or leading or whatever you're doing, try and embrace the elements as hard as it's going to be and try to make the best of it.  But this golf course changes so dramatically when there's wind, and if you get rain on top of it, it's going to be even harder.   
 Q.  How special was it to hole the putt on 17?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it was pretty neat.  I don't think I ever made a putt from down there in all the tournaments I've played here, so it's very nice to see that ball disappear in the hole.   
As I said, I've been struggling with my putting today for the most part, so I was thrilled to make a long one and felt like an eagle almost and not just a birdie.   
Would have been nice to at least par the last but not bogey, that really hurt.  I was 60 yards away and I make bogey.  That's just painful but it happens.  I'm still there.  You know, probably two or three shots behind going into tomorrow, and tomorrow we're going to have some tough conditions again, so anything can happen.   
 Q.  You said that the long putter is not very good for the wind.  Did you thought sometime to have two putters in your bag?  
BERNHARD LANGER: No.   
 Q.  Do you feel it's all set now for what we hope to be a very historic day on the Old Course on Sunday, you're there, Tom is still there, Miguel is there.  There's a few other players still there.  It's got a nice feel about it, as well.  Good leaderboard.  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I think you've got a great leaderboard and that's usually what happens in majors.  It brings the top names to the top, and conditions were pretty tough yesterday and today.  That, again, brings those guys forward that have control over their game or experience or whatever you want to call it, so it should be a thrilling finish tomorrow, unless Jiménez runs away with it but we'll see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT