MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You started off well.   What happened late in the round?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well what happened was it started raining and the greens got, I felt, really slow.   Probably lost the feel for the speed of the greens.   I think they went from whatever, 13 or something to about a 10.   I just couldn't get the ball near the hole any more.   Couldn't get it even close speed‑wise.   
Then I had two horrible breaks.   On 12 I hit a good shot that hit the bank and rolled back in the water.   
13, I probably hit the best shot of the week, my second shot, hit a little twig like this at the very end, in a tall tree, hit that and went straight left.   Unplayable.   Made 7.   
So those two holes cost me five shots right there.   Because I hit that ball perfect.   It was going left of the flag and it was solid, it was a perfect shot on 13 for‑‑ if it hadn't hit that little twig, I would have been putting for eagle or birdie.   
   
 Q.   You're back with the old guys next week, you have to be pretty confident with the way you played here.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   I've been playing good all year.   So this is nothing very different.   But it was fun.   I got off to a great start, felt really good with the putter, made some really good putts and some really good shots.   Couple of good saves even.   And all of a sudden when it started raining, as I said, the greens got so slow, I couldn't adjust.   
   
 Q.   How much did that fast start, birdie, birdie, birdie, kind of energize you for this final round?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, it energized me greatly because that's what I needed.   I knew I had to go something like 7‑under to have, I thought 6‑ or 7‑under to have a realistic chance to win the Tournament.   That's what I was trying to do.   And to go with three birdies right off the deck, that gave me hope that I could do it.   And then it just all went south.   
   
 Q.   To be in contention at the age that you're at, what does that mean to you?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, it's fun because that's what I practice for and that's what we all play for is to be in contention.   It's no fun finishing 50th or 60th or whatever.  
   
 Q.   Or miss the cut.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Right.   Yeah, so we all want to be in the hunt.   I felt I was.   All week my goal was to be in contention and climb up the leaderboard and I was there for awhile and then it just turned the other way.   
   
 Q.   The way the day ended doesn't dampen what was really a great week for you.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, it was still a good week, I mean if you had said I'll finish 25th beginning of the week, I would have said, oh, that's not bad, that's pretty good.   But the way things went, especially with my start, I was hoping for better.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT