MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Very boring, one birdie, one bogey.   The pins are very difficult today and the greens are firming up to the point where you hit some really nice shots and the ball just doesn't stop.   I mean, on 17 I probably hit a career 7‑iron straight up in the sky and it came down and just took off over the green.   Instead of putting for birdie you're struggling to make par, but that's Augusta.   Overall I played pretty decent, just the par‑5s I didn't get it close enough.   I had chances but it was always 15 feet away, 12 feet away and didn't convert.   That was the only thing I'm not happy with.   I think I played the par‑3s and the par‑4s extremely well.   The par‑5s, I played them well but I didn't get my third shot close enough to give me ranges.   
   
 Q.   Your short game, actually your chipping was pretty hot, I thought.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, some of it was pretty good.   But you need it on a day like today when it's firm like this and you're going to miss some greens, or certainly I do because I come in with longer clubs and I can't spin the ball like these long hitters do with their wedges.  
   
 Q.   What's all this about senior golfers not being able to contend at the Masters?   You're the leading European at the moment, I think, or pretty much.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   I didn't say we couldn't contend.   I said it's very difficult to win on a long golf course like this, that's all, and I still stick to that.   But at the same time I say it's going to happen that a senior player is going to win a major championship.   Tom Watson almost did it obviously on a little shorter golf course, Fred Couples can do it any given moment, and there's a few of us that might do it, too.   It's going to happen sooner or later.   Vijay just turned 50; he's capable of winning majors at his age.   He's still long and fit, and it's just a matter of time.  
   
 Q.   What about tomorrow, do you just stay patient or do you attack a bit‑‑  
BERNHARD LANGER:   What else can I do?   I play as attacking as I possibly can.   I'm very aggressive, at times overaggressive, and it cost me a couple of times, but at other times it paid off, so that's just the way the golf course is.   This course is too hard for me to play safe.   You can't play safe when you're coming in with 4‑irons and hybrids or whatever.   You can't play more attacking golf.   I hit the 3 hybrid into 18 after crunching my tee shot, and it pitched pin high and over the green.   And from then I played a perfect chip shot, and it still went four, five feet by.   It's that difficult.   If you miss it in the wrong spot, you're behind the 8‑ball.   
It's easy to attack with a wedge in your hand, it's hard to attack with a long iron.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT