MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You're up there, Fred's up there.   How happy are you?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   I'm pretty happy the way I played overall.   I left a few putts short which is disappointing, but I didn't do it on purpose.   I have a different attitude this year, I'm trying to win, trying to be on the leaderboard, and not just trying to scrape in and make the cut.   So, so far, so good.   
It's difficult out there with this breeze and this gusty wind right now.   
Fred loves this place.   I talked to him yesterday, he's played here 28 times and he's only missed one cut by one shot.   So this is his second home.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your history at the Masters.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   I think this is my 30th.   I'm getting old.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   How does it feel to make the cut?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, it feels great.   I don't think there's a whole lot of players that make the cut at age 55.   So that's an achievement by itself.   But, again, as I said, I would like to contend and not just make the cut.   So we'll see what the weekend holds.   But it feels good to be here on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How much does your experience matter when conditions are like they are today?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   I think it helps.   It always helps.   Like the putt I had on 18, most people would probably play directly, I played it all the way around that way and almost made it.   
   
 Q.   Talk about hole 18.   How did you come up with that shot?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   I have had it before and I've seen that pin position, I know what the green does, so I just told my caddie‑‑ he wanted me to go normal, but I said, I don't think I can stop it near the hole if I putt it just straight at the cup, because it's too fast, too much slope.   I had to putt it all the way up to the bunker and took the gentle slope and it still went five feet by.  
   
 Q.   How long was that putt?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, it was only about 30 feet, but the way I putted, it was like 50 feet or 45 feet.   
   
 Q.   With Freddie on the leaderboard and you on the leaderboard what is it about this place that kind of brings out the best in you?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   It takes experience to start off with, but a lot of times now days, a lot of these caddies, they're all professional caddies, they come here several days early, they put in their homework.   Many players come in early and/or even weeks before and have a look at it.   
Most of the guys know what they're doing, it's not a surprise that certain pin positions are in certain positions.   They know where they need to go.   So experience only helps so much, but it's very difficult in these windy conditions.   You got ‑‑ if you miss it in certain places like I did on No. 1 in the bunker, you just might as well put bogey down unless you make a 30 foot putt.   So it's just impossible to get up‑and‑down from certain areas, so you need to be smart and aggressive.   
   
 Q.   Can a man in his 50s win this tournament?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   I think it's possible.   I always thought that Freddie, with his length, can win it, because he hits it a good 30 yards by me, which helps a great deal on some of these holes.   For me to win, everything has to go my way.   I got to start making some putts most of all.   So I'll be working on that.  
   
 Q.   What do you draw from?   What is the belief that a 350 year old can win this?   Tom Watson at the British Open two years ago?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I always believed that if you play a little shorter course, like the British Open was, that golf course was a little shorter, and the wind was blowing, I didn't play, but I know that some of us could win there.   Because we're just as good ball strikers as any of these young guys.   We're just not as long.  
   
 Q.   Same here?   Just the experience?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well here it's a little different because of the length of the golf course.   I played with a couple of guys, Henrik Stenson drove it through the third green yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Over?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Over.   Yeah.   Through.   And he hit like 8‑iron into 13.   I can't do that.   So I need to try and make up somewhere else with precision elsewhere.   I need to hit better shots or better putts.   
   
 Q.   How well you played on the Champions Tour, even though this is a whole different animal here, does it give you confidence?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Oh, yeah, winning gives you confidence and playing well gives you confidence, nothing like winning.   We see it in Tiger.   Tiger, last year and a half started winning again, now he's confident.   Before, he lost all his confidence.   You can't put a price tag on confidence.   
   
 Q.   When you win will you still compete at Sugarloaf next week?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   I will play the next three Champions Tour tournaments no matter what.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT