MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
March 23, 2013
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVE SENKO:   Bernhard, thanks for coming in.   You got yourself back in position.   Maybe just talk about your day and with the conditions out there.   A little different than yesterday. 
BERNARD LANGER:   Yeah.   We didn't have nearly as much wind as yesterday.   Actually there was very little wind, and yesterday was kind of gusty.   At times there was 15, 20 and then there was none.   So it was a little tricky. 
Today was great conditions; nice, overcast day, and golf course is in great condition.   The greens are wonderful.   Just gotta read them and putt them. 
Otherwise, you know, the course is still not that easy.   There is a lot of challenging greens out there and holes, and I got away with a couple of wayward shots, but overall played pretty good and got more out of the round than I have yesterday.
DAVE SENKO:   Birdies?   Can you start at No. 2? 
BERNARD LANGER:   No. 2 was a driver, 8‑iron, about five feet.   3 was a 6‑iron to about four feet. 
DAVE SENKO:   No. 5.   5 and 6.
BERNARD LANGER:   5 was a driver, 6‑iron, about a 25‑footer.   Then a driver, 4‑iron, full sand wedge to about five feet. 
DAVE SENKO:   And then 7, the bogey.
BERNARD LANGER:   Bogeyed 7 with a gap wedge in my hand from the fairway and bent it over the green and didn't get up‑and‑down. 
DAVE SENKO:   And 8 and 9.
BERNARD LANGER:   8 was 6‑iron to about 12 feet.   9 was a driver 6‑iron again to about seven feet.
DAVE SENKO:   And 13, the par‑5.
BERNARD LANGER:   13 was ‑‑ I'm trying to remember some of these holes.   They look alike.   Oh, that one was a good drive, 3‑wood, about ten yards short.   I chipped it up to a foot and a half.   And then 17 was a 7‑iron to about 15 feet.
DAVE SENKO:   Looked like you had a pretty good day putting.   I think you had just 23 putts today in your round. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah.   Could be.   I might have had a couple of putts from the very fringe that don't count like a putt because you missed the green.   But it was certainly no 3‑putts and didn't miss any real short ones. 
DAVE SENKO:   Okay.   Questions? 

Q.   A lot of good scores today.   I guess that's due to the conditions you were talking about.   Anything in particular work for you especially well today that maybe didn't happen yesterday?
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I hit my irons a little closer today, which gave me better birdie opportunities.   I didn't drive the ball as good.   Yesterday I drove it great, but the irons were not as close.   And then you have a lot of these ridges and bumps and humps, and if you get on the wrong side, you've missed your line by seven yards and then it rolls another 15, 30 feet to the side, and all of a sudden you're 60 feet away instead of 15 or 20. 

Q.   Can you tell immediately or within a hole or two that it's going to be one of those days where you can go pretty low or does it just sort of happen?
BERNHARD LANGER:   It happens.   You have days when you feel fairly good about your swing, but you don't know whether you're going to make putts or not.   And you know, I've had days where I warmed up really, really great and then shot even par, and I warmed up horrible the next day and shot 6‑under.   So you just never quite know.   Gotta play every shot and every hole.

Q.   What can we anticipate tomorrow?   I hear the weather might be windy again.   Any thoughts about tomorrow?
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, the good thing out here is that we all play the same thing every day.   All the leaders are out.   Actually the whole field is pretty much in the same condition, so it doesn't matter.   Whatever it is, it is.   And we're all going to have the same thing.   Obviously, whenever the wind blows it makes golf a lot harder, especially when you have greens like these.

Q.   Take us through 18 from the tee box.   Kind of hidden away from us there on 18.   You got behind the fallen oak?
BERNHARD LANGER:   No.   I went through the fallen oak or over it and ended up on the cart ‑‑ well, not the cart path.   The gravel behind the tent, so you get relief from the tent because it's in the way and it's man‑made.   So I got to drop on the edge of the tent.   You get a club length and then you drop it in the next, which was on the cart path.   So I dropped it twice on the cart path.   Now I had the option to get relief from the cart path or play off the cart path, and my relief would have been in all the wood chips and stuff, so I just hit a full 6‑iron off the cart path and caught it very well, straight, and it was a pretty good shot.

Q.   Let me ask you, last year, we saw a lot of rain here on Friday.   The course drained pretty well.   Saw a little rain today, drained fairly well.   Tomorrow, we talk about wind being out there.   Do you change anything preparing for that?
BERNHARD LANGER:   No.   No.   As I said, you gotta hit every shot as it comes and whatever the conditions are, they are.   Today we played preferred lies, which was a good decision because even though the course drains well, it's still picking up mud on several occasions.   And I assume they might do the same thing tomorrow.

Q.   You've played well here in the past.   Does this course suit kind of the way you play, your style of play? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   I love the golf course.   I think when you play well, any golf course suits you.   If you can hit the shot where you're looking at and make a few putts. 
I generally like fast greens.   I don't like places where the greens are slow, and the greens are good right now.   So that's part of the reason I think I might be doing fairly well this week, but it reminds me a little bit of Augusta actually.   Just the type of grass, they have the rolling hills, the difficult greens.   So it's good preparation for that as well. 

Q.   You kind of stole my thunder there.   I was going to ask you how does this prepare you for Augusta?
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, as I said.   But Augusta is still three weeks away.   So I'm going to have two weeks off and practice a little bit at home and then go up there a couple days early and get some practice in. 
But as I said, the grasses and the conditions, the tree‑lined holes and the rolling hills remind me a lot of Augusta National. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT