THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2012
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Bernhard, thanks for joining us again.   Nice round of 66 today.   Tricky conditions again today, but you seemed to fare a little better, and great position going into tomorrow. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, I played a really good round of golf today with a couple of small putts missed, and hit the flag on No.12 with my second shot, and it actually ricocheted off the green about 25 yards short of the hole.   That could have been a birdie there but was almost a 2, hit the flag and then pitched right next to the hole.
Anyways, it was a really good round of golf, drove the ball really well, putted well early, then I missed a couple of short ones.   One was a severe lip‑out and another one was a misread and a push, I guess. 
And then on 16 I hit a really good shot, as well, just the wrong club, went in the back bunker and made bogey.   But you get that kind of stuff when you've got conditions like there were today.
But overall the wind wasn't quite as strong as yesterday, just had two rain showers, so it was a little bit better than the forecast had predicted. 
THE MODERATOR:   Pick out a couple of the key holes, the eagle on 7 and the birdie on 17. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I had a really good start there with birdieing the 1st and then birdieing the two par‑3s, which are‑‑ especially the second par‑3 is very tough, and then made eagle right on top of that.   After making my first bogey on 5, I then went birdie‑eagle, and the eagle was driver, 3‑iron, and about a 12‑foot putt, 15‑foot putt. 
I had a good‑‑ as I said, the two bogeys were a short missed putt and a wrong club on 15.   And then 17 I hit a really good drive, hybrid just short and pitched it up to about eight feet and made a good putt. 
THE MODERATOR:   I know how proud you were to win the Senior Open a couple years ago at Carnoustie.   How much would it mean to you to do the double here this week? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, it always means a lot to win major championships, win big tournaments, because you're winning against the best players on tough golf courses, and that means more than just winning an average tournament.   This is a fantastic test of golf.   There's a lot of guys still on the leaderboard with a chance, and I look forward to tomorrow, playing with Freddie.   We played together in the pro‑am, and we've been paired together many other occasions.   So should be a good day. 

Q.   Two years ago the final round at Carnoustie was really dramatic stuff and Corey was really pushing you.   Will you maybe feed off the memories of that? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   You know, I don't know if I can feed off from that.   I just need to play my own game tomorrow and play well.   You know, somebody is going to score well, so I probably have to shoot one of the lower scores of any of the leaders to win, and that's going to be my goal. 
You know, if I play well and somebody plays even better, I can't help it.   But all I can do is take care of my own game. 

Q.   Do you have any preference for what the weather might bring tomorrow? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   I really don't care, but we know what it's going to bring, wind and more showers.   It's no secret, I think, unless something is drastically changing over the Atlantic out there, but I don't think so.   So we're probably going to have similar conditions to today or yesterday. 

Q.   Will you use the experience in the U.S. Open recently as a motivation, or will it be a factor at all tomorrow? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I don't think it's going to be a factor.   It's another tournament.   It's a different golf course, different venue, and I don't need more motivation.   I'm motivated anyway, so it doesn't take more.   But I'm just happy to be in that position, to be in the hunt with 18 holes to go, and look forward to another day of golf. 

Q.   Does it mean more to you to win on a course, a very tough course, a great golf course, than winning a major at a lesser course?   Freddie Couples gave that indication when he was speaking about Turnberry today. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I think, as I said a minute ago, or maybe I didn't, maybe I said it outside, I can't remember, but if you beat the best players in the world on a top venue, on a great golf course, that means more than just winning any average tournament somewhere, because it's just a tough test of golf.   Every hole out there can grab you and get you, and if you get a round out there under par, you played your golf ball.   You did a good job. 

Q.   I remember a phone conversation a couple months ago previewing this event when you were talking about going into the final round at Turnberry charging for the Claret Jug and you got a phone call in the morning saying that you'd just become a father.   What do you remember now about that when you look back?
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, this will be a memory now that I will never forget because it was our first child.   We have four children, and our first daughter was born in '86 when we played The Open Championship here.   I would call home every morning, every evening, to make sure if anything went on I could jump on a plane and go home.   I didn't want to miss the occasion. 
But I called Saturday night, and somebody answered the phone and said, oh, your wife is out just walking, gone for a walk with her sister and everything is fine, no problem.   It's not going to happen for another couple of days or whatever.   They've already been in the hospital.   They were already moved in, or she was, and she gave birth to our first daughter somewhere around midnight. 
But I didn't know.   The next morning I got a phone call that said you're a dad, so obviously it was a thrill that everything went well.   I was sad in a way that I missed the birth but made sure I was there for the next three. 
And then I came here ‑‑ I was staying in the area, and I arrived Sunday morning, and it had on the leaderboard, "Congratulations, Bernhard, you're a dad," so that was pretty cool. 

Q.   What's she doing just now?
BERNHARD LANGER:   She almost came because she just had a birthday a few days ago, and I thought it would be pretty neat for her to come over here and be with me, but she's working and she had a couple of projects that she couldn't leave alone, so she couldn't make it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT