THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2012
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   73 today didn't sound great after yesterday but it's not bad.   How do you feel about it?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   I had a great start but then it wasn't so great.   The conditions were extremely tough.   I had a lost ball and I had an unplayable ball and I had lots of stuff happening on the back side.   Wasn't maybe my best but in the end I have to take it and move on.   
   
 Q.   Turnberry is showing its teeth this afternoon; describe for us how tough it is to play these courses in such conditions.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, it's just hard to even describe.   You know, I usually hit my 3‑iron about 210.   I hit my 3‑iron 160 straight into the wind.   So you're looking at 40, 50 yards of wind.   
A lot of these holes are crosswind, which means it's harder.   If it was more straight down or straight into, it's a little bit easier to play with.   But with crosswind, it's more difficult and you have the side spin on the ball.   And off the fairway, a lot of bad stuff, long grass and bushes and all sorts of stuff.   If you look for five or six balls, you're lucky to find one.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it for you to wield your long wand out there on those greens in such wind, such breezy conditions?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   It's harder, too, because you're standing taller.   It becomes a little more tricky.   
   
 Q.   What do you want in the way of conditions, like yesterday where we were bathed in sunshine or do you want these gale force winds tomorrow?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   It's not what I want, it's what we are going to get and it's going to be more of this.   
I started with two birdies and made some wonderful putts and played okay for the most part and then I hit a couple of bad shots coming home, and paid the price.   Made a 6 on the first par 5 there and then I lost a ball, really bad tee shot there.   Just it was very difficult, there's no doubt about it.   Made some good pars, as well.   If you take the average score, it's five to 7‑over.   
It's extremely difficult, a lot of crosswinds and very strong winds.   It's one thing to play in ten to 15 miles an hour, but when it's 20 gusting to 30 as it is out here and with all of the trouble there is, it's tough.   
   
 Q.   I presume it's difficult to stabilise yourself on the greens.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   It is.   You know, the way I made my triple‑bogey, I actually hit 3‑iron on the tee and hit it fat, about 180 yards, 150, I don't even know.   I usually don't do that.   It's just the conditions made it difficult to balance and make your normal swing.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on seeing what Gary Hallberg achieved today?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   I think that's the round of the year.   When I heard, that he was done before I started, and I said, well, that's 7‑under today, that's like 10‑, 11‑under on a normal, decent day.   That's how good it was.   My hat's off to him.   He played some incredible golf.   
   
 Q.   Presumably when you birdied those opening two, you thought this was going to be a nice little round for yourself, as well.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I was hoping it would be after a great start but I knew it would be tough out there, all of these crosswinds that we were facing, it's not going to be easy, but in the end, I have to take my 73 and move on, and we still have the weekend ahead of us.   
   
 Q.   Still feel you're in a good position despite the disappointment?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I'm in second place.   So if you had told me I was going to be in second place, three shots behind after two rounds, I would have taken it without even playing I guess.   
   
 Q.   Exactly what happened with the triple?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Just hit a 3‑iron fat off the tee and it didn't carry the way it should have and went into some long grass.   Couldn't find it, so I had to reload and made bogey, and that was a 7, very quickly.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT