U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, we're pleased to welcome Bernhard Langer to the Media Center.   He's the 2010 U.S. Senior Open Champion.   He posted a 2 over today, 8 under for the championship.   Top ten finish. 
Likely disappointed with your round today, but you showed a lot of heart, made a charge there at the end.   Talk about your overall round. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   I got off to a bad start, pushed my tee shot on 2 a little bit and got caught under the trees. 
Then I actually played a really good shot into the green side bunker, which I was trying to do because it seemed to be an easy bunker shot, but it rolled up right against the lip, and it was like right up against it.   And I tried to play a special shot there, went immediately up in the air, and I caught it a little thin.   It went over the green, and now I had more shot.   So I made double bogey on 2. 
Played some good shots next few holes, had some birdie chances, missed them all.   Number 7, I drove it in the rough, made another bogey, and it just kind of went from bad to worse. 
Had some chances again on 8 and 9 or 10, and nothing went in the hole.   And then 12 I drove in the bunker again.   So just couldn't make a birdie.   Made my first birdie on 16 when I almost holed my third shot.   Sorry.   15, I think it was.   Just had a tap‑in birdie there and then hit it in the fairway bunker again on the following hole. 
Just didn't feel comfortable with that wind.   The wind was out of the west today, a totally different golf course.   Didn't seem to suit my eye as well as the wind we've had all week from the south.   And finally, I hit some really good shots coming home and at least finished tied for second. 
THE MODERATOR:   Let's open it up for a couple of questions.

Q.   The frustration on 2 carry over, or was it just like you said, the wind conditions and you had some good looks at birdies that just didn't fall for you? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   I tried to not let it bother me too much.   Obviously, every time you make a double bogey, it's not much fun, but I knew there was a lot of golf left and I was still in the lead.   If I shoot under par from that point on, I'll still be in good shape. 
But I couldn't make a putt.   Just the chances I had either I left short or misread it or whatever.   It just wouldn't go in. 
As I said, the only putts I really made were on 17 and 18.   I made two reasonable putts from about 15 feet or something like that.

Q.   Bernhard, you talked yesterday about how a four‑shot lead wasn't very big.   It's really hard to protect the lead.   We've seen that a lot in the PGA.   Can you just maybe address how difficult‑‑ even with a four‑shot lead, it is to try to hold that. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, as I said, a four‑shot lead is not huge.   You can lose four shots in three or four holes.   I made bogey.   Somebody makes birdie, that's two shots gone.   You can easily lose four shots in not 18 holes, you can lose it in six holes or whatever. 
It's happened before, and it will happen again.   So I knew that.   My goal was to shoot under par.   I said yesterday, if I shoot 1 or 2 under, it will be hard for the other guys to catch me, and I didn't do that. 
It was for me to win the championship.   If I had shot 1 or 2 under, I would have won the championship, but I just didn't play well enough to do that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Bernhard, thank you very much. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   You're welcome. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT