U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Bernhard Langer shot a 70, is 4 under par for the Championship.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Gentlemen.  
   
 Q.   What was it like out there today, compared to yesterday?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   It was very hot.   Pretty uncomfortable hot.   Otherwise, it was very similar to yesterday.   The greens might have been a little firmer, but very similar conditions.  
   
 Q.   And your game from yesterday to today?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   My game was somewhat similar too.   I hit a lot of good, decent long shots, but the putter was ice cold today, couldn't make anything.   So made one putt for par from about ten feet and a two‑putt for birdie, and that was it.   
So left a few out there.  
   
 Q.   Talk about just maintaining a good position on the leaderboard, didn't shoot yourself out a bit, kind of got it around.   Here you are, you're going to have a good chance going into the weekend.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, of course, but I gave myself lots of opportunities to be 7 or 8 under, and here I am 4 under.   So can't be happy with that, but I'm not out of the tournament.   So that's the good news.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to fight the frustration of a bad round going into the weekend?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, it wasn't a bad round.   It was a bad score, in a sense, which you can say it's not a bad round.   A par round around this golf course is not a bad round, but it could have been better, and that's the frustrating part.  
   
 Q.   Now, you talked when you first came into the Media Center earlier in the week about possibly having to adjust to the time zone.   Have you recovered from that?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, I'm over it now.  
   
 Q.   Because of that now, will you spend some time on the putting green now to try to figure out what happened today?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, I'm going to practice a little bit, even though it's very warm.   But probably going to hit a few balls and then putt a little bit and work out afterwards, call it a day.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT