U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bernhard Langer.   Shot a 66 today and is 4 under par.  
   
 Q.   Great round today.  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Thank you, appreciate it.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like a very steady round out there.   Did you feel the same way?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Drove the ball tremendously.   Had one bad tee shot on No. 1 and hit every fairway after that pretty much and drove it, as I said, very, very well.   Hit some really good iron shots.   Had lots of opportunities early on and didn't make anything.   Made one putt on, I think it was 4 or 5, where I made birdie, and then I three‑putted the next hole for bogey.   
Had lots of chances.   Finally, on the back side, I converted a few.  
   
 Q.   The course played tougher than you thought it would today?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   I knew the course would play tough.   It's a difficult layout.   You have lots of doglegs.   You've got to cut corners, which makes the ball run through the fairway, and if you're not on the correct line or you need to shape the ball off the tee, we know the greens are extremely difficult.   They slope so much, if you get it on the wrong side or above the hole, you're already defensive, even though, like I hit a beautiful 4 iron there on number, what is it, 5?   Par 3?   
Pitched right next to the hole, ran about 20 feet past.   I had a downhill putt, and I thought it was real fast and tapped it, left it six feet short and three‑putted.   
You hit a brilliant shot, and you make bogey, and that's the difficulty about this golf course, besides the rough is punishing as well.  
   
 Q.   Did the course change much over the course of the day?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   I wouldn't know.   I wasn't out in the morning.   I think they syringed the greens in the middle of the day.   They were still somewhat receptive early on, and then they got a little firm in the last couple hours.  
   
 Q.   Anything tomorrow to think about differently, now that you've played it once?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   No, no.   I was well prepared.   I didn't learn a whole lot today that I didn't already know.   Just the plan is to hit fairways, hit greens, keep the ball below the hole and hopefully make a few putts.   Sounds simple, but as we know, it's not.  
   
 Q.   Rather benign conditions with the wind being rather‑‑  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, there wasn't much wind, but it was a little inconsistent.   Gusting and changing directions, which was confusing.   
I looked at the forecast, it said easterly winds, so I look at my charts, thinking it's east.   All of a sudden, it's out of the west, and then it's out of the south.   It makes you double‑guess or whatever you want to call it.   
Just it was inconsistent early on.   I think the last two hours, three hours, it picked up a little bit and it was more out of the east, where it should have been.   But it wasn't 25 miles an hour.   Hate to play this course at 25 mile an hour wind.  
   
 Q.   It's a little more interesting?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   For you, maybe.   Okay?  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   You're welcome.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT