SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2012
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We see that you've been really playing the front nine pretty strongly.   4‑under on the front nine of this course.   Can you talk a little bit about that?
BERNHARD LANGER:   It just turned out that way.   It's not that I think the front nine's easier or whatever, it's just ‑‑ I don't know.   I played steady yesterday, just hit three balls in the water on the back nine over the two days and that's probably the difference. 

Q.   What was your main adjustment from your first round to your second round?
BERNHARD LANGER:   There was no main adjustment, I just, there was less wind today from a different direction as well, so a totally different golf course.   And I just played a little better.   I played more solid and it just turned out to be four shots better or whatever.   Five, right? 

Q.   There you go.   What's your, what are you going to do to prepare for the weekend going in?
BERNHARD LANGER:   I'm just going to practice a little bit today, not too much, it's been a long week already and it's very tiring out there playing this golf course.   So practice a little and then stretch, work out, and go home. 

Q.   What was the difference from yesterday?
BERNHARD LANGER:   The weather was a little nicer.   We had 20 to 30 miles an hour winds and gusting at times.   And it's a very tough golf course.   I hit a couple in the water yesterday on the back nine and hit one in the water today on the back nine.   So I got to stop doing that, the rest is pretty decent.

Q.   That was a nice up‑and‑down after hitting in the water there on 15. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, I did.   It was good to make the par and keep the momentum going.

Q.   Talk about being right in the thick of things heading to the weekend.   After a really tough day Thursday, you did what you had to do today. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Right, that's where you want to be ideally, obviously it would be great to be 10 ahead, but that wasn't going to happen after yesterday's start.   So I would like to stay in touch with the leaders and give myself a chance on Sunday afternoon. 

Q.   Given the strength of your game, severity of the green complexes here, do you feel like this course suits you for the weekend?
BERNHARD LANGER:   I think that it is really a thinking man's golf course and that usually suits me.   You really got to think your way around here and know where to go, where not.   Take your chances at times and play safe at other times.   So that should suit me. 
I got to work a little bit on my sidehill, downhill uphill lies, because you get a lot of these on the fairways and today I think that I hit a couple fat or left and right when I had uneven lies, so I need to work on that a little bit.
  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT