U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Here with Bernhard Langer. That was quite a reaction there after that putt on 18. Can you tell me about it? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, I finally made a putt and made a birdie. Started off pretty good. Birdied the second hole and I think it was 6 or 7. Missed a couple of opportunities in between, but had a couple of good saves as well. 
 Ran into back-to-back bogies there on 13 and 14, and really lost my game a little bit. Started driving the ball poorly and just not doing anything very well. After that I actually started playing better again. Hit some decent tee shots and some fairways and some greens. I had some opportunities coming home and finally made a birdie on 18.

 Q. Could you walk me through your birdies? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Sure, I'll try to. I have a hard time remembering these holes. They all look alike. Second hole was a 3-wood and then I believe it was an 8- or 9-iron. Hit it to about five feet or six feet, made that putt. 
 I missed about a six or seven-footer on the next hole, the 3rd one. Then I birdied -- I can't remember, sorry. I think it was 6 or 7, I made another birdie, and the last hole was a 5-wood off the tee and a 9-iron to about 16 feet and made a putt. 
 So those were the three birdies and then I had two bogies, in case you want to know those.

 Q. Sure, sure. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: 13, I hit my tee shot in the right rough. 5-iron to the back fringe, chipped it out and missed about a 10-footer. Then the next hole I drove it in the right ditch. Dropped the penalty shot and hit a 5-wood on the green and two-putted. So those were the two bogies.

 Q. How are you holding up with the heat out there? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: It was pretty steamy. It's really tough, especially. The first couple of hours were okay. It was a little cooler and you're fresh, but then as the round goes on it's a long time out there in the heat. Huffing and puffing in the end.

 Q. Birdie on the last. Does that give you a little momentum heading into tomorrow? How are you feeling about it? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, every shot counts, every shot is important. So it's nicer to be in the red numbers and one closer to the leaders, that's for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT