U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2010
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Bernhard Langer. Had a 2-under 68 today minus 3 for the Championship. Followed up with another good round. How did you do it?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Played steady golf, tried to get it out of the fairways and hit the greens and hopefully make a couple of good putts. Started off with a nice birdie, two really good shots 6 feet way from the hole and a good tee shot on 2. Blocked it into the water and dropped and got it up and down for my 5.   
  
  Q. Then a birdie on 10.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, and then I had a bogey on 3, then a bogey on 9, then there was an eagle on 11, right?   
 THE MODERATOR: Yeah.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Hit a good tee shot, hooked it around the corner and beautiful hybrid over the trees, rolled to the back edge and made a 20-footer down the hill for eagle. That was the key of the round. I was able to make pars from that point on and birdied 17 when I hit a 6-iron to 9 feet left of the hole.   
  
  Q. Bernhard, were you just as proud of some of your pars save on the backside than the birdies? You made some good saves there.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Definitely, not just on the backside, my second hole to make par after hitting it in the water, I had to get it up and down from 80 yards away; that was pretty key. And I had a really good up and down somewhere on -- I can't remember the hole now but -- 14 or 15 I think it was when I was in the bunker. I had to make about a 15-foot, 18-foot putt just to make par. So that was pretty key.   
  
  Q. Did you think the pin placements were easier today?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, I didn't think so. There were some very tough ones and a couple easier, but overall I don't think there were easier and I don't think the scores are going to be that much better today either, but we'll see.   
  
  Q. How about your jet lag? Is that getting any better?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it should get better day by day, and yesterday was a tough day because the second and third day are usually the hardest, and I had a late tee time, and my body clock was not normal, and my tee time was 1:00 which was 9 p.m. on my body, playing from 9 to 2 a.m., which is tough to do, but I should be okay for the rest of the week now.   
  
  Q. I was going to ask you about the jet lag and second recovering from the highs of last week. Does that carry over to an event like this?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it's hard to -- Mondays are always tough because you're exhausted and the adrenaline is leaving your body and you're just always tired Monday. But this is a big enough event to pick yourself up and get motivated and get movin' so I don't have a lot of problems with that.   
  
  Q. After you made the bogey on 9, did it feel like this was the kind of round that could get away from you, or did you still feel like you were on top of things?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: You never quite know. It's the type of golf course that any hole can get to you. You just got to be careful and hit good shots. But 9 I actually hit it -- looked a good 4-iron off the tee and followed the bunker, and I played a good bunker shot, missed about a 6-foot putt, something like that, so it was just one of those bogeys that can happen out here real fast.   
 But, you know, I was aware of it that at that point, I was 1-over for the day and I didn't want to make a lot more bogeys; I wanted to get back in the red numbers.   
  
  Q. Bernhard, could you explain how you remain in such good, physical condition?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: I can't explain it. Some might be genetics, some might be that I work out, and I kinda watch what I eat, not all the time but most of the time, and I'm a pretty active person. When you put all of that together with a good metabolism, it helps.   
  
  Q. How much do you work out?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: It changes. When I'm home I work out a lot more than when I'm on the road, so I can't tell you how much because it's different every week. But I don't drink, I don't smoke and I get plenty of rest, I make sure I get about 8 hours of sleep, so all of that over the years probably helps.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, sir, for your time.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: You're welcome.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT