U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2010
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BERNHARD LANGER: I hit it straight and made some putts. It's always the same, isn't it? Just different venues, different conditions, but it's always same idea, hit it where you're looking and try and play smart, attack the holes that can be attacked and play smart on the other ones.

 Q. Can you tell us about your eagle on 11?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I hit a beautiful hooked tee shot with my driver and had 230 to the front edge or 228, something like that. Hit a very nice high and straight hybrid, landed right on the front, rolled to the back edge of the green and made about a 30-footer down the hill, and that was nice to make, because it was very, very fast.

 Q. Did that kind of thing pump you up? Saving par? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Are you kidding me? Of course it pumps me up.

 Q. You played real steady and then had a birdie. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: It's a tough course to make 6 or 8 birdies, it's just not there, unless you're extremely lucky or you make 20, 30 footers all the time, because I still think some of these pins you just can't attack. 
 If you short-side yourself you might as well write down bogey or worse. You've got to have respect for the golf course. Anytime you can make a birdie or even an eagle it's pretty exciting.

 Q. How do you stay so strong from last weekend, the challenge there, and traveling?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, that's the tough part, to get over the jet lag, to get plenty of rest and then feel with enough energy to be out there. It wasn't easy. I've been getting up at 3, 4 in the morning every day, and especially yesterday with a 1 p.m. tee time, which is 9 p.m. my body time, and then play five hours. So I finished like 2 a.m. on my body clock, which wasn't simple.
 Today was a little bit easier, but then we had this long delay, we were standing around, they wouldn't let us sit down for quite a while. I'm pretty tired right now.

 Q. How do you stay mentally in focus?
 BERNHARD LANGER: It's tough, but I'm pretty good in that area. Once I'm out here I'm pretty motivated and struggle through it.

 Q. Do you have anything you go through to get yourself in that frame of mind?
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, there's no tricks. I'm a Christian, I read the Bible, and it's all in there. You don't have to see a sports psychologist, you just open the Bible, it tells everything in it, anything you need to know. But most people don't want to go there. 

 Q. You won a couple of father/sons with your son. What does that bring to your abilities this week?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, Stefan really is not like a professional caddie, he doesn't really help me with clubs, what to hit. I don't even ask him most of the time, because it wouldn't be fair. So he does help me read the greens and he's pretty good at that.

 Q. He was on the bag last week, too?
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, he wasn't, a couple of weeks before that. But last year he caddied like ten times for me and we won three tournaments.

 Q. You said you couldn't imagine the pins being any tougher than Thursday. How about today? Were they tougher?
 BERNHARD LANGER: There were some good ones out there, yeah. They mixed them up a little bit. They have a handful or a dozen really tough ones and then others that are really accessible. I'm sure they mix it up. 
 But there were a couple out there that, you know, the toughest pin on the green, which hole was it, I think No. 10 was the hardest pin position, right over the bunker on the downslope. If you pick all the pins that's the hardest one out of any of them. So we got that one out of the way.

 Q. What would you give the USGA for the pins yesterday and today?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, normally you would say that some of them are a little bit crazy, but we're playing the U.S. Open or the U.S. Senior Open and we're known to have difficult conditions and difficult pins. So it's accepted. On TOUR they might get a little bit of criticism, on a regular TOUR event, but since it is the U.S. Open, it's normal. 

 Q. Not like they went from a D to a B minus today?
 BERNHARD LANGER: In terms of toughness? No, no, no, they weren't that easy yesterday, either, I don't think. Terrible? Some of them. But the greens are such that anytime you go away from the middle of the green you're going to have a tough pin position, and they're not going to put them in the middle of the green very often, it's not going to happen.

 Q. Can you talk about your line on the tee shot on 17. Is that where you were planning on hitting it? Obviously if you leak a little right you're in the water. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, well, it was left of the flag, but I was aiming middle of the green, probably eight yards left of the pin, and I probably pushed it four yards. So that's about it. But it was still three or four yards left of the hole, which is safe side. You didn't want to be right of the hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT