THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 24, 2010
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for joining us. Two shots ahead at the end must be a satisfying one for you.
 BERNHARD LANGER: It was a good round of golf again. Played very solid, and wasn't in too much trouble for the most part. There's only two things that I could have done better; I think the 3-putt on 14 was a shame after hitting two beautiful shots in there. And I wasn't too far away, I was only about 35 feet away with the first putt and 3-putted that one.
 And then the bogey on the last one, I hit probably the wrong club off the tee and just trickled into the bunker and ended up making bogey there. 
 But otherwise, I was very happy with my round. 

 Q. You're in a terrific position going into the last round, and this course perhaps more than any course has a history of scuppering people in the last round; are you aware of learning from other people's mistakes? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: I'm not aware of the history but I'm aware of the golf course; that it's one of the toughest links you'll ever play. 
 So I'm very much aware that the three-shot lead is nothing, or very little, so I still need to play a very solid, very good round of golf tomorrow if I'm going to lift the trophy tomorrow. 

 Q. Tom Watson said earlier that you were respecting the bunkers; has that been your strategy this week?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, definitely. Definitely trying to avoid the bunkers, because every time you go in it, you lose a shot pretty much. 
 Yeah, that has been my strategy from the get-go and at times I'm aggressive and I hit the driver quite a bit the last two days. But there's a couple of holes where I just lay up short and go in with longer clubs into the green, which makes the second shot harder, but at least I shouldn't end up in the pot bunkers off the tee.

 Q. What did you hit off the last tee, 3-wood? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: I hit 3-wood and we were actually discussing whether I should hit one less, hybrid. Should have listened. Stubborn German (laughter).

 Q. How many bunkers have you been in over the three days?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Fairway bunkers? This was the first one today, just on 18. 

 Q. The green-side one, 13 or 14, that was a tremendous bunker shot. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I was just literally trying to get it out, because it landed short with a 9-iron, hopped in and plugged to about this much from the face of the bunker (two inches) and it was a big face. I just took an all-mighty swing at it and just hoping to get it out of there, because I saw it being plugged, I might not even get it up quick enough. 
 Got it out there and ended up about six feet from the hole. 

 Q. Could you see the hole from where you were? Were you playing over --
 BERNHARD LANGER: The face was much higher than me. I couldn't see the hole at all. 

 Q. How would this compare here, to win this weekend, how would it compare with the other great achievements in your career?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it would be another highlight, for me, having been my first major win on the Champions Tour and having won the next best thing to an Open Championship, I suppose. 

 Q. What was the problem your 3-putt at 14?
 BERNHARD LANGER: The problem, I just left my first putt short. I misjudged it. It was going uphill, and left my first putt about six, seven feet short and I missed the next one. I just didn't hit it hard enough. 

 Q. You hit a great second at 17, what was that? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: 4-iron, about six, seven, eight feet, somewhere in that range. Almost went in. I think it rolled over the edge or something. 

 Q. It went left, didn't it?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it did. I was trying to putt it right, right edge, and I either pulled it a fraction or it broke more. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Bernhard, thanks for coming in. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT