THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 23, 2010
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you struggle at the end?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: A little bit. Even though I was very pleased with my driving of the ball my tee shots were solid and I hit a lot of fairways and I really put myself in a good position off the tee but didn't take advantage.   
 The short game wasn't quite as good. I didn't make as many putts today, and some of those putts off the green didn't get close enough. Plus, I saw the wind was blowing a little harder and it was blowing all day long.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about how just a little change in the wind can make the golf course so different? You never know it, do you?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: It was a totally different golf course today from what shots you hit off the tee and what club you hit in general because the wind direction switched just a few degrees. That's what links golf is all about. It's hard to explain, but a 20-mile-an-hour wind, from one direction to the other plays like 40, 50 yards longer or shorter and changes the whole golf course.   
  
  Q. We always talk about you as the mind master on the golf course, the guy that works his way around the course so surgically, but it requires execution, too, doesn't it?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: It does, and this course requires a lot of thinking and when you have to think a lot. You are going to make a few mistakes, especially in the execution, too. A hole like 17, you have such a narrow entrance with a 4- or 5-iron in the crosswind, there's a lot of tough shots out there.   
  
  Q. How much did the wind getting up for the second half of that round impact on a level-par round today?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, the wind was really blowing all day. By the time we teed off at two o'clock, it was, you know, steady wind and it never let up. I was hoping maybe the last couple of hours, sometimes the wind drops in the evening, but it didn't drop today. It's blowing the whole day and it makes links golf that much harder. Just a lot of crosswinds out there where you have to, you know, fight the bunkers in the water and it's hard to get the ball close to some of the pins when you have crosswinds.   
 Overall, I'm pretty pleased. I wish I would have made one or two more putts, but generally, I played quite well, and I'm happy with that.  
  
  Q. You saw Corey Pavin hook one out on the 18th to drop on the last, do you just have concentrate and just put that behind you and concentrate on the next hole a little bit more on this type of golf course?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, definitely. This course can get you on any hole. There's really no real birdie hole and no easy hole, or not a stretch of three holes, where you can say, well, I can take it easy here; I should be making pars maybe, birdies it or whatever. None like that.   
 And the wind, whenever it just changes direction a little bit, you're playing a totally different golf course than you played in the practise rounds or yesterday.   
  
  Q. I was going to say, how difficult strategy-wise is it? This is a course that can play different four days if you're here for the weekend?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: I agree. I think yesterday -- today, the wind was southeasterly, and I think yesterday we had more northerly wind so it was quite a different golf course.   
  
  Q. Looks like you'll be playing with Corey Pavin in the final group tomorrow, hopefully you won't be sharing too many Ryder Cup tips with him?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, he doesn't mean a lot of tips. He's been around and we played against each other or with each other several times, and he has, what, four assistants, as well, that he can ask for advice. He doesn't need me.  
  
  Q. Can you take us through the birdies and bogeys?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Sure. Birdied the 6th hole, hit a nice drive and then hooked a 5-iron in there, pin-high, 2-putt from about 50 feet, 45 feet, whatever.   
 And then birdied the next hole, the 7th. That was a 3-iron off the tee, and a 9-iron to about seven feet.   
 Bogeyed the two par 3s coming home. Made a mistake on the first one, what is it, 13, and just didn't allow for the wind. I actually hit a good shot but the wind took it left more than I thought and ended up in the pot bunker next to it and I had very little chance there.   
 And then 16 is always a tough hole, same thing there, I hit 5-iron, tried to run it in and the wind got hold of it a little more, and missed the greenest there, putted up to about ten feet and missed it, the par putt.   
  
  Q. How nice was it to see the putt drop on 17?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: That was very nice. It would have been, you know, just that much worse to finish with two over the last three holes or whatever when I actually hit a lot of good golf shots.   
 But it can happen out here. There's no guarantee for pars.   
  
  Q. You take 71 as a satisfactory score at the end of the day with the wind?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I think it's a very good score. I don't think there's a whole lot of scores today way under par, but I don't know, I haven't seen the scores. It certainly played tough. But you know, if I had made a couple of putts, I could have been 2- or 3-under but I didn't, so I have to be happy with it.  
  
  Q. In terms of the wind, it was also cold, today is; might have been sunny but it was cold out there?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: It felt a lot colder than it looked, yes, certainly the last two or three hours.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT