OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
April 17, 2010
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVE SENKO: Bernhard, thanks for joining us. You're in the lead by one, maybe take us back through your day and we'll get some questions. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: 5, I hit 4-iron off the tee and then sand wedge to about five feet. 
 No. 7 was driver, laid up with a 5-iron, a full sand wedge to two feet. 
 10 was a driver and then a pitching wedge to 15 feet. 
 13 was a 3-wood off the tee, lob-wedge to about four feet. 
 The par 5, 14 was a driver, laid up with a 5-iron and then wedged it to about six feet. 
 15, I hit a really good tee shot with a 3-wood but ended up on some uphill lie, severe uphill, and then I pulled my 7-iron into the left bunker and missed about a six, 7-footer for par. 
 18 was a driver, 6-iron, I think it might have hit the stick, I don't know, the flag, I couldn't see over that ridge and ended up about five feet away. They were all pretty close. I didn't make any long putts. They were all pretty short-range distance, birdies. 
 DAVE SENKO: 15, 7-iron into a bunker? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Pulled it left in the green-side bunker and then missed a 6-, 7-footer for par. 

 Q. As the day went on, didn't seem like anybody was really able to make a strong move out of the lead back; did you see the ability to come and make a move on the back nine?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, you know, the way the golf course is playing right now, it's easy to go really low, because the greens are so firm, and because they are new, they are very firm and it's hard to get the ball to stop on certain -- where you can't even attack certain pin positions because you have no room. 
 You have to allow the ball to run with a 6-iron or 7-iron or whatever you're coming in into some of these greens, and also the par 5s, you know, if you attack it with a 3-wood or something, you hit the green, the ball is not going to stop within 20, 30 feet. It makes it that much harder, and I think that's why the scores have been that much higher than in the past when the greens were soft. 

 Q. How do you approach the final round with a slew of people behind you? Do you play more aggressive? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: No. My game plan seems to be working so far, so I'll play the course the same way I played it the last two days, take my chances on some holes, and par is good on a bunch of holes. So it's a combination of that. 
 You have a few holes where you hit shorter irons in like I did, and I hit them close today. But there's a bunch of other holes where you're coming in with longer irons and you're pretty happy to hit it within 30, 40 feet and make par on some of the holes. 

 Q. Was iron play the key for you today?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it's a combination of both. It's important to hit your tee ball on the fairway where you get more spin and distance control. I did hit some very good short iron shots as you heard me talk, three, four, five, six feet, a bunch of them; a lot easier than 10-, 12-footers, 20-footer.

 Q. When it's this tightly bunched going into the final round, how difficult is it to keep the blinders on and not be distracted or aware of the others and just concentrate on your game? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, that's something you learn over the years. We are no rookies out here. We have done this before (chuckling).
 You just try and play your own game. I'm not going to be watching the leaderboard a whole lot maybe until the last few holes to see if I need to be more aggressive or if I can -- if I have a big lead, I'll go for pars, maybe more so than birdies coming down the last few holes. We'll see. We'll do the best we can, and it should be an exciting event having that many guys in contention.

 Q. When you're in contention, is there anything mentally that you do in terms of just getting relaxed and preparing for tomorrow?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Nothing different to any other round of golf that I play normally; so it's just the same thing. 

 Q. What kind of adjustments would you make for rain conditions where it slows the greens down, how do you adjust your game to that?
 BERNHARD LANGER: You real will don't make any adjustments either. You just try and putt the ball a little harder if the greens should get slower. 
 I don't think rain will show these greens down a whole lot because they have been watering them, anyways, every night. I think they have to. And so if it rains a little bit more, I think the greens are new, the water is going to drain really quick. Unless we are expecting a lot of rain, which I don't think is the case -- or is the forecast that bad? No, I don't think we are going to get a lot of rain, what I've heard, but who knows. 

 Q. So it won't change your game very much? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, the greens will still be firm. With the rains, they might play a little slower. So you might have to hit them a little harder, that's all.

 Q. With so many wins in your career, you don't play for second place out here, do you? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, I don't. I've had too many of those already. I don't need more seconds. 
 DAVE SENKO: Thank you, Bernhard. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT