THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 25, 2009
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You said yesterday you knew you had to shoot low to bring yourself into contention and you've done just that. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I played a very nice round of golf today. I hit a lot of good shots, quality shots and still had not made a lot of putts but even though I didn't make any putts, I still shot 65, so I'm happy with my long game.

 Q. Which was the pick of the birdies today? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: There were just five birdies spread out over the course of the 18 holes. Started off birdieing the two par 5s and three other birdies thrown this there. 
 Had a few other chances but the greens are very tricky. They are hard to read and there's always a bit of break and you need the perfect pace, and like 17, I hit a perfect putt and it just moved to the left. 

 Q. You said yesterday you were going off to work on a couple of bits and pieces you were not happy with, whatever you did seems to have worked wonders. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it did work. I hit more quality shots, more fairways, more greens and gave myself more opportunities, and I even made a couple of 6- or 8-footers that I might have missed yesterday. So overall, I'm pretty happy with it. 

 Q. Fred Funk is 6-over to bring him back, and Sam Torrance, as well; shows how penal this course can be if you go off the fairway?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it's very penal, several double-bogeys and worse can be made out there on any given hole. If you drive it in the fairway bunker, you're already in trouble, and then if you miss the green on the wrong side, you short-side yourself. There's a lot of challenges out there, and it looks ease yes on the outside but the pin positions are pretty tough and you have to really think your way around. 

 Q. Just after your opening round, you're right back in it now, because it wasn't best of starts for you on Thursday. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, it wasn't. It wasn't really horrible; the score wasn't good. I didn't play all that bad. I just didn't make anything out of what I did out there. 
 Left a few behind, and could have easily been a 68 on any other given day. But I didn't make any putts and left one in the bunker and things like that. So it adds up quick if you don't get it moving in the right direction.

 Q. What is the change you made overnight?
 BERNHARD LANGER: No real changes. I just hit some balls and tried to work on my swing a little bit, get comfortable, worked on my takeaway a little bit. With the putting, I just moved slightly closer to the ball and that seemed to help me on my six- to ten-footers today.

 Q. Have you found good karma out there? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: I don't believe in karma. You know I'm a Christian. I believe in God. That's all I need. I don't look for karma. (Laughter).

 Q. But good, positive memories. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: But it's so long ago, it's hard to remember. My win was here 24 years ago, 25 years ago. I remember last hole. That's about it and a couple other things. 
 But I've been to so many places since, it's difficult. But yeah, I've had some good memories here. We won the Seve Trophy here, played European Open and stuff like that. I just don't remember the breaks on the greens; that would have been more important than all of the others. 

 Q. You also came in here with a lot of form, winning last two events you've played in, it's going to be an exciting final day tomorrow. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, if it stays the way it is right now, there's a lot of players still in the hunt. I think the whole leaderboard, maybe even more than that, has a chance tomorrow, just whoever goes low wins the trophy. 

 Q. Is it a course on which you have a choice to be quite aggressive or be defensive?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Very much. So.

 Q. Tomorrow, really everybody has to be a bit more aggressive, do you think?
 BERNHARD LANGER: It just depends. I think I'm going to stick with my game plan for the most part and we'll see how it goes, and then if I have to make adjustments on the back nine, I might. But there's only so many holes I feel like I should be over aggressive. I've got to play my own game and take my chances. 

 Q. So more cautious? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: I wouldn't call it cautious, no, but smart. 

 Q. Hybrids and 3-woods off the tee, or are you hitting more drivers?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it's a mixture of everything really. I hit a number of drivers, hit a number of 3-woods, hit a number of hybrids and even one or two 3-irons. So it just depends where the wind is and where the pin is and all that kind of stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT