THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 24, 2009
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Highlights of the round, an eagle on the 9th, talk us through that. 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I hit a beautiful fade with a 3-wood, I think it might have gotten halfway up the bank and then got halfway down and then made one of the very few putts I made all week. Made about a 35-footer for eagle.

 Q. 67 today, had it not been for the excellent two rounds from Fred Funk, you would be nicely in touch but a long way off the lead, so plenty to do over the next two days?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, for sure, that's some playing by Fred. It's amazing what he's carved out these two rounds, hitting it well and making the putts, too. 

 Q. What particular challenges have you found about Sunningdale over the last two days? 
 BERNHARD LANGER: Really mostly on the greens. I probably had not hit the ball as well as I can, not ridiculously bad, but I haven't made a lot of putts, and that's what it comes down to. I missed a number of 8-, 10-, 12-footers, that I had been making lately. 

 Q. How have conditions changed during the course of rounds with the various showers, and the rain delay today?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, they changed a lot, it's like we have had three seasons in a couple of hours. It was cold one minute and then rainy and windy and yesterday we had a strong shower. You could hardly see 50 yards, and then it got warm again, and looked like the middle of the summer. Conditions are varying. The wind is not consistent. It's out of the same direction but it's definitely swirling around a bit.

 Q. Strategy for the weekend to stay in contention hopefully?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, try to move my way up the leaderboard and hopefully get closer to the leaders as Sunday afternoon comes. 

 Q. At what point during your round were you aware of what Fred was doing?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, I saw the leaderboard most of the time. He had a steady start and just a strong finish. He was 1-under for 14 holes I think and then 4-under the last five. Made a big difference. 

 Q. Does that put you under more pressure when you see what's going on with someone like that?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Not more pressure but maybe more frustrated because you're further behind but that's about it. You have to play your own game and you couldn't control what others do, anyway.

 Q. Other than your putting, striking the ball well enough, are you, tee-to-green?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, not perfect, either. Just hit a couple of -- missed a couple of fairways and some of my irons were not close enough to really be challenging for birdies. 
 So something I'm going to be working on this afternoon, ball-striking and putting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT