BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 27, 2009
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you enjoy yourself out there?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: I sure did. I had a couple great playing partners with Miguel Angel Jiménez and Thomas Levet. We had a lot of fun and played some good golf as well.   
  
  Q. Talk us through the putt on 16.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I pulled my tee shot into the trees and chipped it out low and went way too long, and then made -- I don't know how long the putt was, I'm guessing about 22 yards, 24 yards, and went right in the middle and it was just fantastic.   
 I putted very well today. I only missed two putts from inside ten feet, one on 18 and one other one, but otherwise I made just about everything which makes all the difference.  
  
  Q. This is the only German title you haven't won. What would it mean to you to win?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it would mean a lot because this is hometown. I grew up 45 minutes from here. I worked here in Munich for 3 1/2 years and have a lot of friends, a lot of family. This is as close as it gets to winning at home, and I've come very close many times but haven't made it yet, so will keep trying.  
  
  Q. You've won so many tournaments all over the world, do nerves and apprehension still play a part heading into the final day?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: A little bit, but I'm at a stage in my career where I really want to enjoy my golf. I just want to have fun and enjoy the few more years that I might have. I don't want to grind away like I used to, and I have nothing to prove out here. Whether I win this tournament or not, I've been very blessed, I've won a lot of tournaments and achieved a lot of things, so I'm just trying to have fun.  
  
  Q. What's it like having your son on the bag?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, that's very special. I know it's going to be short-lived because he's going to go to college soon. After this one we have only one more tournament and I have always enjoyed being out there with my son.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT