SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well, you know, you're doing well, you're only in third place and you have two more days and have you a chance to win. How do you stay focused in the next couple days?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Just do the same thing that we always do. Just take one shot at a time and play one hole at a time and do the best that we can do, really. Don't get ahead of the game, just there's still a long way to go. It's only half time.

 Q. Your group as a whole played pretty good the past two days, do you think you fed off each other?
 BERNHARD LANGER: I think it helps when you have players with you that hit the proper shots and take the right clubs and do the right thing. I think it's visually better than when they're hitting left and right and all over the place.

 Q. Do you feel like you had a certain rhythm going once the round started or maybe a certain shot that kind of set the tone for the day?
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, not really. I thought I had it going and then I made that eagle here on 15, which was my sixth hole, but then immediately I made bogey on the next hole and bogey on 18. So I gave them right back. 
 And actually played very nicely the last sort of nine holes. But the greens were hard. I couldn't make a putt.

 Q. Were they harder today or softer?
 BERNHARD LANGER: They were bumpy. 

 Q. It might rain tomorrow, do you have any like a game plan tomorrow in case the weather changes?
 BERNHARD LANGER: No. Same thing. The golf course won't change a lot. So it's just to stay dry and keep the clubs dry and take an umbrella, bring your waterproofs and keep going. It's not the first time I'm going to play in the rain. But hopefully we'll miss it anyway.

 Q. Will you have a certain routine that you'll do tonight to prepare for tomorrow or maybe a right actual?
 BERNHARD LANGER: No. No. I'm just going to go stretch now and have some dinner and shower and relax a little bit. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT