SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How did you play?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: I played pretty well for the most part. I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, and tried to minimize the mistakes. And I pretty much did that. I got it once or twice for up-and-down, but most of the time it was pretty solid golf.  
  
  Q. It looked like the wind picked up a little bit, was that a factor?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: It was definitely gusting. At times it was five to 10, most of the day, but every once in awhile it was blowing a little harder.   
  
  Q. It looked like Scott played very well.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: He did.  
  
  Q. He didn't finish well, I know, but he still played pretty well all day.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, he played extremely well. And he played flawless golf pretty much. Hit the ball very good off the tee and some really, really good iron shots, very close to the hole.   
 He didn't make many really long putts, it was all shorter putts for birdies. And he played very steady, except for 17 he hit a bad shot; and 18 he actually looked like he didn't make too bad of a shot, but he pulled it a little and it probably went further than he did. Maybe he had the wrong club, I don't know.  
  
  Q. Having played the course now a round, I don't know, if the conditions remain this way, it looks like there's some lower scores possibly on the weekend, but do you think that with similar conditions would you see scores pretty much the same? Is it more difficult to score?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: I think if conditions stay this way then the scores will be somewhat similar, I would imagine. It all depends on the wind, I guess, and the pin positions. They could really make some extremely hard pin positions here. These greens are very delicate, let's put it that way, a lot of slope on them.   
  
  Q. Are you pleased with where you are?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Pretty much. I'm two behind the leader at the moment and I'm quite happy with that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT