MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 11, 2008
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Good round on a tough golf course?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: It's tough, extremely tough, but that's all right. It's a winners-only theme here. They are all champions and have won before. We want a tough venue and we got it this year. The rough is extremely punishing and there are some pretty long par 4s out there.  
  
  Q. How tough is it being Bernhard Langer at the moment? You win on the Champions Tour in America, you win in the Seniors Tour, and now you're a couple under in the first round in this tournament.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: It's all rosy and great when it is. It's fun. It's nice to be winning again. I enjoyed my time out on the champions tour and Senior Tour. I'm just glad I don't have to play courses like these every week because they are just too long for me.  
  
  Q. Do you find it a real stretch when you turn up and it's like this?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: It is. This course is long anyways, and right now the ball is not running a lot.   
 So I'm hitting a lot of 3-irons, 4-irons, 5-irons into par 4s. When you have water hazards, we are close to the green and stuff like that, and it's not easy.  
  
  Q. Ryder Cup next week, will you be watching?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: I will be watching. I'll be home, spending time with my family, but as much as I can, I'll be tuning in.  
  
  Q. It was reported during the week that you said Faldo didn't have enough helpers on the golf course, do you still feel the same?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: I think it's important the first few days each group should have somebody with them, so they can report back to the captain, because you can only be in one place at a time. And I thought it was very helpful when I was captain to have one guy with each group and report back to me over the radio what's going on, how they are playing, can I help them in any way or whatever, and I thought that was very important.   
  
  Q. Every captain obviously does it his own way, but had you been the captain this time around, who would you have picked?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, that's not fair to ask me that question.  
  
  Q. I know it's not fair but go ahead and answer it anyway?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: It's extremely difficult, let's put it that way. When I had to pick there were five or six guys that deserved to be there and I could only take two, and I'm sure it's the same this time around. There's Darren Clarke, Martin Kaymer, two or three others who had high hopes, and problem is you can only take two. I'm not going to criticise Nick for whatever he did.  
  
  Q. How tough do you think the Kentucky crowd will be?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: It's not easy and every time you're away from home it will be that much harder. I hope we have lots of supporters coming over and cheering on our side.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT