THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 24, 2008
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How good a score is 70 in those conditions?
 BERNHARD LANGER: It is difficult to say but this course is so well bunkered and there is so much trouble all over the place. We saw it on the 11th when all of us were a little bit off and we all ended up in the gorse or in the bushes. If you are off line here you can find a lot of trouble so it is vital to find the fairways and the greens and try and not make any big numbers.

 Q. Do you think the course is easier or harder in this wind?
 BERNHARD LANGER: It was a totally different golf course, I don't ever really remember playing it this way for a number of years. The front nine was much harder but the back nine was a little bit easier, just the opposite from normal here. I'm not sure which wind is tougher to be honest, I think it is pretty even because there is a nine into the wind and a nine with the wind whichever way it is.

 Q. Even downwind it is not easy to get the ball close to the flag, is it?
 BERNHARD LANGER: No it isn't but that is links golf isn't it. You get the firm greens and yes the holes play shorter downwind and you have wedges and short irons in but you still can't stop it.

 Q. When was the last time you hit two drives consecutively of 400 yards because you managed that on the 15th and 16th today?
 BERNHARD LANGER: I don't ever remember hitting a drive 400 yards! I think the 16th was probably my longest drive ever. I saw there was a bunker out there but I had no idea that I could get there and I managed just to stay a couple of feet short.

 Q. You are known as a master technician, you must relish the opportunity to go out and pit your wits against this type of course?
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yes I like links golf in general and I like a course where you have to think and you can be aggressive but you can be defensive too, you always have the option on links courses. You can hit a three iron off some tees but similarly you can also hit a driver and have a go at it. But if you hit it in one of these pot bunkers you are in trouble.

 Q. You have had a terrific season so far, what would this mean for your resume?
 BERNHARD LANGER: It is not just for the resume, I have always had a dream for winning the British Open and I haven't done that. I understand this is not the British Open but it is maybe the next best thing and I am just having fun out here playing with the old guys and they are very very competitive and there are a lot of great champions competing out there and it would mean a lot to win this championship.

 Q. After what Norman did last week at Birkdale, maybe there is still the other Open too?
 BERNHARD LANGER: That is true, it inspired us all and we always seem to root and cheer each other on when one of the over 50s does well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT