BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2008
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That was quite an impressive performance by Martin, wasn't it?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Very much so. Played very well and made a lot of putts. That's the only way you're going to shoot that kind of score is by making putts, and it was fun to watch.   
  
  Q. You've been carrying the flag for Germany for so long, but when you see somebody young like that, you must be proud.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: It's great to see that we have some youngsters who can play that type of golf, and hopefully take on the torch for golf in Germany in the future.   
  
  Q. He was just saying in there, you seemed to be having a long chat in the recording area, and he was asking you for a bit of advice on how he can improve the game.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: He was just asking if there was anything I noticed the last two days, because we had not played a lot of golf together for some reason. He just came on the Tour last year, and I spend most of my time in America. We played a practise round at the Masters, but otherwise, we had not really spent a lot of time together.   
 So these last two days gave me a chance to watch him under pressure and tournament conditions, and I was very impressed. I told him that the only weak link, if anything, were a couple of wedge shots. Everything else was extremely good. He drove the ball fantastic and hit some solid iron shots. He's long, he's straight and made quite a lot of putts.   
  
  Q. It's quite impressive when somebody shoots 63 and then says, "How can I improve," isn't it.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, but I think it's very smart of him to ask those kind of questions, because some other guys would be so full of themselves; saying, 'I just beat him by ten shots,' or whatever, or 15. That's how you learn. You learn by watching and asking questions.   
  
  Q. Shows he's got a smart head.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: That's what I said. I told him: You're very aggressive, but you're smart at the same time, like Tiger Woods is or Phil Mickelson who is very aggressive and goes for everything no matter what. So I like that, and that's what I mean when I say he's got an old head on his shoulders.  
  
  Q. How far do you think he can go? You mentioned two of the greats of modern era at the moment, Woods and Mickelson.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Going by the last two days, he can go a long way. I don't think there's any limits for him if he keeps that up.   
  
  Q. And your own game?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: I was struggling with my swing. Just not hitting the ball very solid, and spending a lot of time in the rough and in the bunkers. Hard work. It wasn't an enjoyable round myself but I enjoyed watching him, but not my own game.  
  
  Q. You must have enjoyed the atmosphere out there.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: It was good. My swing doesn't feel very sound at the moment. Three weeks off the last three weeks and I haven't found it yet. So got to be patient. It will come back. It's there somewhere.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT