U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 1, 2018
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BERNHARD LANGER: Conditions are very difficult with the wind.  It's a blustery, anywhere from 10 to 20 mile an hour wind.  But it's always there and just sometimes changes a little bit direction and strength.  It make it's very difficult to control the distance.  Like I hit a beautiful 7-iron there on 4 and it flew about 10 yards further than it should have and went over the green.  And then I got just stuck, I got nothing.  18, I hit a great 3-wood, went all the way through the fairway, almost in the water.  Had a horrible lie.  And I make a bogey from a hundred yards.  Stuff like that.  So it's just very frustrating, difficult conditions.   
 Q.  Is it drastically different than the first three days?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, the course dried out dramatically.  There's a lot more run.  I mean, that 3-wood on 18 should have never gone that far, but the fairway, that fairway was rock hard.  Not all of them were.  Difficult.  It's just very difficult.  As I said, you don't always get rewarded for good shots.   
 Q.  Having won this championship, what are the leaders going to face coming down the stretch and how are they going to have to control their emotions to win this?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it's one thing to control your emotions and hopefully get a good bounce instead of a bad one.  But every hole is a challenge.  Even if it's a pitching wedge downwind or something, the pin locations are such that -- 18 is easy, but if you're not in the fairway and you're not short of the pin, I 3-putted from just six yards past the hole.  So it's like that the whole time.  If you're just slightly out of place, you're going to get punished.  So we all know the back nine is very difficult, if you can go even par on the back nine you've done a tremendous job.   
 Q.  I know you're here to win, but every time you've played in this championship you're in the top-25.  What brings good play out of you when you come here?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Well I think it's the tough conditions that bring the better players to the forefront.  And playing four rounds as well.  I played really good, I hit a lot of great shots, especially this weekend, and today I got nothing out of it.  I could have just as well shot 66 and I shot 72.  Which is not good, but I'm proud of the way I played, just not happy with the way I scored.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT