TOSHIBA CLASSIC
March 7, 2008
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVE SENKO:  Good start, 65.  Maybe just talk about your day.  6 birdies and no blemishes on the card. 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  Yeah, played really solid today.  Hit the ball really good off the tee.  Probably one of my best driving rounds ever.  Put myself into a lot of good positions to attack the pins.  Maybe didn't get my irons quite close enough on some occasions. 
 Never really made -- well, I made one putt about 15 feet on what was that, 12, 11 or 12? 
 DAVE SENKO:  12. 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  And maybe another 10-footer on 2, I think it was.  That was about it.  Everything else of 2-putt for birdies.  Made a lot of the Par 5s in two.  Just played very solid.  You know, if I had putted like Scott Hoch or Jay Haas I would have been a couple better, three or four better. 

 Q.  Your group was really playing well there.  No bogeys until 17, I believe.  Were you feeding off each other at all, or concentrating on your own game? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  We had a very comfortable group.  We talked a lot and like and respect each other.  It was a pleasure playing with those two.  It's been a while since I was paired with Jay and Scott.  Obviously they're two of the strongest players out here, so it was fun being in their company. 
 We all played pretty good.  Scott probably played the worst but he putted the best, and that's an equalizer there. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  That was on 7, yeah.  Yeah, I hit it real close, and then he did his second shot and it hopped and landed on my ball after the first hop.  His ball ricocheted a little bit to the left off the green, which wasn't a horrible position, and mine went to the right. 
 I had to determine where it was, and we asked the spectators and some marshals to determine the exact spot where it was.  They said it was exactly in our line, so that was good.  I knew the line.  And over here they said it was actually closer or further away.  We were pretty close. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  It was about four feet in the end, three and a half, four feet.  I tried to talk them into making it two feet, but it didn't work.  We were kidding.  If it had been Arnold Palmer, it would have been two inches. 

 Q.  Did you have an idea that the scores were going to be so low coming out here today? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  Not really, but, you know, the conditions were beautiful.  We didn't have a whole lot of wind.  Just a little bit of a breeze.  The golf course is in good shape, and there's a lot of good players out here.  It's going to get more and more competitive as the years go on, I think, because every year there's a bunch of strong players coming out. 
 The ones that are still good out here, like the Hale Irwins, they're not going away.  There's a bunch of really, really good players.  There's probably, out of the 78 guys, I would think at least 50 can win on any given week.  Just play aggressive and play well. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  You basically have to.  You know, you just -- a lot of times you have to go for it.  You know, if you don't pull it off you pay the price.  But if you play it safe you're not going to be in the top 10 anyway.  That's just the way it is. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  If the weather stays the way it is, it could well be somewhere between 15- and 20-under, but I really don't know.  Difficult to make those predictions.  A lot depends on the wind.  If it stays down it's obviously much easier to score.  If the wind goes to twenty miles on hour it becomes more tricky. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT