BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2007
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Ladies and gentlemen, welcome.  And a special welcome, Bernhard Langer after a tremendous round of 67 for the fourth round BMW International Open.  Just a few comments to this round, please.   
 BERNHARD LANGER:  Well, it started off well.  I made a nice birdie on the first and hit a good shot on the second.  Saved par on the third after hitting into the rough and just made a couple more birdies.  Actually had a great eagle chance on No. 6 from; couldn't have been more than eight feet or something like that.   
 I started off very well and it continued, basically.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I drove the ball much better than yesterday; hit more greens, and just got a bad break on 11.  I hit a really good drive, which I thought was on the fairway and it rolled through the rough about three feet into the -- sorry, through the fairway into the semi-rough, and it was really sitting down in the hole.  Couldn't go for the green, had to lay up and didn't manage to make birdie there.   
 And then misread a putt on No. 14.  Hit a really good putt, just didn't break the way I thought it should, and 18 I hit a tremendous tee shot -- or 17, I holed a wonderful putt for birdie, and misread one on 16, as well.  Aimed it left and it didn't break.  So, you know, there were some opportunities and just didn't happen.   
 And 18, I had a chance to go for the green and that actually was a bad swing on my second shot into the rough.  And then had such a bad lie I couldn't even aim for the flag; had to aim for the middle of the green, got another bad lie and it was a pretty good up-and-down for par.   
  
  Q.  You were six behind at the start of play; was that a lesson to any other golfer that even at six behind, you have a chance and you must go for it?   
 BERNHARD LANGER:  I think I was five behind, but that's okay.  I don't think anybody needs a lesson.  I think everybody is trying to, you know, shoot as low as they can and win.   
 As I said yesterday, I've once won being seven behind, but that doesn't mean it's going to happen every year.  But at the same time it doesn't mean that you're not going to try.  Just everything has gone right today and I could have been 14-under myself, so I probably would have had a chance to win.   
  
  Q.  Secondly, which gave you greater pleasure, doing it in front of such a great German crowd giving you so much support, or doing it at the age of 49 and feeling there's a lot of life there?   
 BERNHARD LANGER:  I think it's fantastic to play in front of your home crowd.  I mean, you probably heard some of the roars out there; it was pretty big.  At times I almost got goosebumps.  It was pretty unique.  It always fun to play in front of your home people.   
 Obviously, you know, at 49, to be in contention every once in awhile is basically what I practise for.  That's why I still play is because I like the adrenaline rush, I like to be in contention and feel the excitement.   
  
  Q.  How close were you to pulling out on Thursday when you had to have the treatment on course?   
 BERNHARD LANGER:  There were times when I thought I probably shouldn't continue.  And then I had the idea to call -- especially around from the 7th hole through the 13th, it was really, really bad that stretch.   
 But the physio helped me a little bit and you know, because it got worse and worse there for a while, then when he came around, it didn't get worse; it got slightly better.  So at that point, I got a glimpses of hope again and that's why I continued.   
  
  Q.  Have you not felt it in the last three days at all?   
 BERNHARD LANGER:  No, nothing at all.   
  
  Q.  How much leaderboard watching were you doing today?  Did you know when Fasth double-bogeyed 10?   
 BERNHARD LANGER:  I didn't see it immediately but I saw it eventually, yes.  I was watching a little bit.  I didn't spend a lot of time watching leaderboards because I knew I had to play well and keep moving up there.  You know, I was way behind, so there was no point watching if you're not making a move.  But since I had a pretty good front nine, I did keep an eye on it.   
 KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Thank you, gentlemen.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT