BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2007
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KLAUS WAESCHLE:  We just discussed with you yesterday, is Bernhard Langer playing better than ever? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  Yeah, sometimes the old stuff comes out and it's still there.  I don't think it's better, but every once in awhile it's similar to what I used to play like, so it's fun. 

 Q.  The course this week, very tough with the rough, rather like last week perhaps.  Is this what we need to do to groom the next European major winners, to set up all our courses like this and make them used to it? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  I don't know but definitely I've never seen this course like this, and I've never seen many European courses set up this way.  The rough is extremely punishing.  Sometimes you're just two yards off the fairway and you have to hit it 40 yards or 50 yards sideways, so it's extremely tough.  I don't expect the scores to be as low as in the past here. 

 Q.  But in terms of learning about playing the game under all situations, it's not only a question of learning how to get out; it's also a mental attitude of being able to cope with it and accept it. 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  Sure.  All of that is true.  I don't know if this will improve the European players or not.  But that's a tough one to forecast.  I think it's okay to have a few courses like this every once in awhile.  I'm not sure it would be fun week after week. 
 But as we saw last week, it had to be, you know, extremely tough and the players are not having much fun when they play in conditions like last week where 5-over is a good score. 

 Q.  Should it be fun? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  I think it should be.  And I think a lot of the spectators and viewers who follow the game and you know, we are entertainers; and therefore, I think the majority of them would like to see birdies and good shots being rewarded and that's not always the case at the U.S. Open.  But that's okay. 

 Q.  You've almost answered the question I was going to ask you; have you had any input this week, but from the sound of this things, you probably haven't. 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  No, I have nothing to do with this tournament -- 

 Q.  From changing the course around. 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  No, I had nothing to do with it at all. 

 Q.  You've never won this tournament -- 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  That's correct, I'm afraid. 

 Q.  Is it going to be this week? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  I don't know.  No one knows the future.  I've had some good finishes here but I've never won. 
 I think it was always a course that always suited the longer hitters.  I think that's why we've had players like John Daly, Stenson and I think even Karlsson, the guys who move it out there pretty good. 
 But we've also had other players win here who are not quite as long.  So you need a bit of both.  But this week you need to be extremely precise.  You can't just bomb it and find it and hit it again, because if you hit it in the rough, you've got to be punished. 

 Q.  The seniors is coming rapidly up, I suppose rapidly is the right word; you must be feeling good about that and a lot of other people must be feeling very bad about it? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  Well, I don't know how they feel, but I look forward to it just because it should be more fun to play little shorter courses and to play against guys my age and not 20, 30 years younger and to hopefully be in contention more often and maybe win a few events here and there. 

 Q.  Just one other question.  Are you going to play some more tournaments in Europe this year now? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  Yeah, I'm planning to play three in Germany and probably one or two more. 

 Q.  Holland? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  Yeah, Holland is on the list right now because my son Stefan is invited to play there as well. And hopefully the British Open, as well, if I get in.  I'm not qualifying.  I'm hoping to get in by playing well and being in the Top-50 of the World Ranking. 

 Q.  You're not going to try to qualify for The Open Championship? 
 BERNHARD LANGER:  I'm going to try and qualify, no. 
 KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Thank you very much for joining us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT