WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 8, 2006
Bernhard Langer
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, definitely at the beginning, I think  whenever you're in the Top three or five, it's a good performance, because you  have a lot of good teams here.   
 But we had it going on the front  nine, yeah, and then still played good up until the 14th hole and then we just  let it slip. Really had some chances and  just didn't take advantage of them.   
  
  Q.  Apart from Argentina no one has really run away with it, and three shots  is nothing I would imagine.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: The conditions are tough. The wind is still blowing and the greens are  tricky with the grain. It's not  easy. If you miss the fairway you can  draw some bad lies. That's probably why  there's a bunch of bogeys made out there and you can 3-putt real quick. The Swedes are pretty good putters but they  made a couple.   
  
  Q.  Does it demand a great deal of concentration in this format to make sure  you don't make mistakes?   
 MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, I think I improved from yesterday to  today. My driver was definitely working  quite nicely today. 17, I missed if I  first fairway there and it was tough for Bernhard to get the ball close to the  green and then the bogey on 17, that's all right. I missed a birdie on 16, a great shot again,  and missed a short putt.   
 I think we did quite a lot today and  we're still up there and two days to go.  A lot of golf to play and enjoyed it very much again today. Played well actually.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: The big key was we hit fairways and greens at  the beginning, fairways and greens. Just  adds up, you know, and we did that very well all day. 14, the first par 5, I pushed my lob-wedge a  little bit and left him a tough putt and 3-putted there.   
 The next hole, we didn't take  advantage. We were on the edge of the  green on 15 and missed a short one on 16 and 17. So it's just, it was real quick when it goes.   
  
  Q.  If you doubled your score on Sunday afternoon, it wouldn't be too far  away, though, I don't think with these conditions.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Probably if the rain stays away, I would  suspect this course will be harder than yesterday.  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT