WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 7, 2006
Bernhard Langer
Marcel Siem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Thanks for reminding me. (Laughing) yeah, every once in awhile -- the  golf ball doesn't know how old I am, so that's a good thing. Every once in while I play pretty good. I played last week, I brought a bit of  confidence into this week, and made some good putts today. That's what it's all about.   
  
 MARCEL SIEM: Yes, definitely the first time playing 18  holes with Bernhard was yesterday actually, and it was a great hand or to play  with Bernhard. It was good fun,  definitely. It's a good test and it was  quite good out there.  
  
 MARCEL SIEM: Definitely.  His game is still much better than mine, but it's good seeing what I  have to work on, and he's a great player.   
  
  
  Q.  There were some times out there that Marcel you seemed to be hitting the  ball wayward today. What advice did  Bernhard actually give you?   
 MARCEL SIEM: Yeah, I was a little bit, what do you call,  laid off --  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Reverse pivot.  
 MARCEL SIEM: Reverse pivot. And I asked him if he saw that and he said  right away, yeah, it is definitely this mistake.   
 Then I started hitting the ball  better afterwards and he helped me out there.   
  
  Q.  What else did he tell you to do to cure your reverse pivot?   
 MARCEL SIEM: Actually, if you know what you're doing  wrong, it's quite easy to make it better afterwards. So just picking up the balance and on the  backswing you just have to move a little bit to the right and that's it. So I'm a feeling player, I know my body and  Bernhard says this mistake I know how to handle.  
 BERNHARD LANGER: I didn't have to tell him; he knew  immediately. It's something that all of  us do at times, you know, you make a full turn when you hang on your left and  you don't have room so now you have to back up.   
  
  Q.  So it's too much weight on the left side?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, the left shoulder doesn't go behind the  ball, it kind of gets a little bit in front or over the ball, and then you come  down steep and you pull-hook it or you reverse and then you push/slice it; the  dreaded double-cross. (Laughter) I've  done that many times. We all know the  feeling I think.   
  
  Q.  Bernhard, you said you played well last week, having said that, is this  still any surprise to be leading so far?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Not really.  You know, nothing surprises me in this game. When the conditions are as tough as they were  today, they were extremely tough. It's  very nice sitting in here; we were out there in 25- to 45-mile-an-hour gusts  and rain showers. There were shots, I  mean, I remember standing on what is it, 11, the par 3, I had no clue what to  hit it and how to hit it. I just wanted  to hit it and get under the umbrella, that kind of thing. (Laughter).  
 It was difficult. I think that's why the scores are so high  because, you know, the greens are good. You  can make putts, but when the wind is this strong, if you don't hit the fairway,  the rough is growing day-by-day and the ball is sitting down. It's pretty tough.   
  
 BERNHARD LANGER: He did very well. It's hard to compare him with a veteran like  Pete Coleman. He did everything  right. There wasn't anything he could  have done better.  
  
 BERNHARD LANGER: This is the second time. He caddied for me at the Deutsche Bank  Championship last year in Germany.  
  
  Q.  Nice to be playing team golf again?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: It is.  I enjoy team golf. I always  have. I've played in 11 World Cups  before and we pulled off a surprise victory when probably not many people  thought we could do it. I've always  enjoyed Ryder Cups and Dunhill Cups and all that kind of stuff.   
 Sometimes I didn't play, not because  I didn't enjoy it, just because of other reasons. Every once in a while you have to stay home  and get to know your kids and your wife, too.   
  
  Q.  Is it correct that it's your first time here since '96 or your first  time in the World Cup?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Could well be. At least five or six years, maybe more.   
  
  Q.  What advice do you give to your son for the first time he caddied for  you, what did you say to him; keep quiet?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, he could talk to me. We talk while we walk and he's actually a  plus-one handicap. He knows what to do  and what not to do. I really didn't have  to tell him a whole lot.   
 I just said, keep up, because he  needs to be there when I need a club. He  does very well. He rakes the  bunkers. I watched him today. I was in one bunker and he took extra care to  make it real smooth, because some caddies just go in and do this kind of thing  and leave some marks behind and the next player goes in and finds a terrible  lie. He really did a great job  there. I even asked him to look at some  of the putts because we play these kind of greens in Florida, bermudagrass greens, very  grainy. That's what he grew up on  basically and so he's pretty decent at reading greens, too.   
  
  Q.  Is he going to be a pro?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: He's a bit young to say that. He's got six and a half years of school left.   
  
  Q.  How old is he now?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: 16.  He's got two and a half years of high school and then four years of  college. So got a long way ahead of him  and he needs to get a lot better if he wants to turn pro. I wouldn't let him turn pro right now. (Smiling).  
  
  Q.  Are you a strict father?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Fairly disciplined, yeah. The bad thing is -- or not the bad things, I  was a bad example. I didn't go to  college. So he might come up to me one  day and say: Oh, well, you turned pro  when you were 15, but that's not going to go very far.  
  
  Q.  With the weather conditions so changeable, did you have an idea of a  good score in mind after the first few holes?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: I really didn't because I'm not too familiar  with the golf course. I only played  yesterday and I really didn't know what type of scores could be shot around  here, so I had nothing in mind. I just  wanted to play every hole and every shot as good as we could and, you know,  hopefully be one of the better teams at the end of the day.   
  
  Q.  Just wondering if you saw much of the Ryder Cup at The K Club, and any  thoughts you had on matching the record or did you thank Mr. McGinley for  keeping the record for you?  
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, I didn't thank him. It's not about records; it's about  winning. You want to keep the trophy in Europe; whether you win by half a point or  by ten points it, really doesn't matter too much.   
 I was thrilled for the guys to have  done so well. I think it was one of the  strongest teams we've ever seen on the European side. I was definitely glued to the  television. I was playing the Texas Open  in San    Antonio. I remember it vividly. Every morning as soon as I got up, I switched  the TV on because it was already on, and as soon as I finished I watched some  more. I was thrilled for Ian, the  captain, and the whole team to have done so well.  
  
  Q.  Did you have sort of hankerings to be there again or were you pleased to  be away from all of the pressures?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, for a long time I was actually just going  to come and watch him be part of it because I'm on the Ryder Cup Committee, so  I was invited to come and watch.   
 I talked to my wife, we had made  plans to go, but as it turned out, I really tried to keep my card on the PGA  TOUR and so I needed to play a few tournaments.  I didn't have many left. So I decided  not to go back to Europe and just play a couple more events.   
  
  Q.  Did you keep your card?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: No, I did not. I finished 138th, so I got a conditional  card.  
  
  Q.  Gordon mentioned the big 5-0 approaching. What are your big plans regarding senior golf  and next season for that matter?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, when I turn 50 at the end of August  next year, I plan to play mainly on the Champions Tour in America.  
  
  Q.  Before then, you're going to play a few U.S. Tour events?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, mainly on the U.S. Tour and a couple in  Europe.   
  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Have to play that one or my brother would  give me a hard time.  
  
  Q.  At what point in the round did the conditions start to kick up for you  guys?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Conditions were bad from the very  beginning. The wind was strong and it  started raining on and off all day long.  So, you know, I was hoping being first off I might get less wind. But then I talked to some locals, they said,  no, it's probably the other way around. The  wind slows down in the afternoon.   
  
  Q.  How fierce was 6? What was that  par 5 wind when you were playing it?   
 MARCEL SIEM: It was tough.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Help me out.  I can't remember.   
 MARCEL SIEM: We both hit in the left side of the  semi-rough.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, that was rugged. It was raining when we got to the tee. It was coming sideways and one of those where  you just get behind the umbrella, give me the club and hit it. You don't go through your normal routine  because you get wet and that whole thing.  
 We both hit it in the left rough and  he had a horrible lie. I drew a pretty  decent lie. So I hit driver, 5-wood,  5-iron.   
 MARCEL SIEM: I had 4-iron.  It was the first par 5 I have 4-iron as a third shot. It's not normal.   
  
  Q.  What did you put your putting down to today? You putted very, very well today. Was it because you were coming in constant?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, I putted good last week. We played the Father/Son tournament and I  made a lot of putts there. I just feel  like I could see the line pretty good. I  had a good feeling for the pace. And  obviously I made a couple long ones, which is always some luck involved because,  you know, basically just trying to get it near the hole and hope it might go  in.   
 They did drop in, a couple of  them. It's at times lucky because they  could have just stayed out as well. Yeah,  I made a lot of good ones. I missed two  putts I wish or would have liked to make from maybe six to nine feet, but  that's easily done out here in the grain and the wind. There were times when everything was moving;  the body is moving, the putter is moving, and so it's not easy to putt in wind.   
  
  Q.  Was the course almost unplayable at some point?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Not really.  I mean, on the 11th tee that might have been the worst because he was up  and he said, should I wait, because it was so bad. And I wanted to say, yes, wait until it's  over. (Laughing).  
 At the same time I told him, I said,  we can't wait too long, we're first out, we're on a certain amount of time that  we're allowed to play, and we'll be first to be timed if we're not on the right  amount of time. So we ended up hitting  in horrendous conditions and we hit pretty bad shots, too.   
  
  Q.  You probably won the thing, but where did you finish in the Father and  Son?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: We won the last two years. (Laughter).  
  
  Q.  What were you in relation to par?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: We were 24-under.   
  
  Q.  Who finished second?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Bob Tway and his son, and Vijay Singh and his  son.   
  
  Q.  Is this in Florida?   
 BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it's at Champion's Gate. It's in Orlando.   
  
 BERNHARD LANGER: Well, tomorrow it will be the same for  everyone because we take best scores. Today  is the only day when some of the, whatever -- it's more spread out. Tomorrow you have to play together and not as  good teams play together. So it will be  all right.   
  
  Q.  Do you like foursomes?   
 MARCEL SIEM: I love it actually. I always love to play amateur tournaments  like The European Team championships, Eisenhower Trophy; you don't play  foursome in Eisenhower Trophy but the first league, second league things. It's great fun. I think I was -- I would love to play  four-ball on a team as well. It's  completely different because you have to focus a little bit more and just don't  make two bad shots. Especially tomorrow,  I have to hope my driver, that it goes straight. Can't hit it in the water hazard on 11 or  somewhere else. But I like the pressure  and it's good fun.  
  
  Q.  Do you feel there's a lot of pressure having a Masters Champion on your  shoulder?   
 MARCEL SIEM: To be honest, yesterday evening was my most  exciting Wednesday I've ever had in my life.  I felt pressure already, but I think it's getting better and better.   
 BERNHARD LANGER: (Turning to Marcel, patting him on  shoulder). No pressure, we're here for  fun.   
 MARCEL SIEM: I learned a lot. Like in the practise round yesterday how he  treats the golf course and how he's doing the strategy and just measuring the  wind things and everything. So I'm  learning a lot and it's good for my experience and just perfect. I'm enjoying it.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT