WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 23, 2003
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Pretty good but could have been better?
BERNHARD LANGER: That's the name of the game though, good and should and would. I am pleased overall though. I haven't been playing that great and when I warmed up this morning it was horrendous, I hit the ball so badly on the range, it was a joke. When I got to the course I just tried a little lighter grip pressure and that worked and I got off to a really good start. I lipped out at the first hole from about 12 feet and then went on the run with an eagle and three birdies.

Q. Did you think after the first, it wasn't going to be your day?
BERNHARD LANGER: It certainly looked that way, definitely. The way I am hitting the ball I need to take advantage of every opportunity I have and the putt on the first, I don't know how it missed, it looked just perfect.

Q. What was happening on the range, how bad was it?
BERNHARD LANGER: I hit a couple left, a couple fat, a couple thin, a couple right and just not anywhere near the centre of the clubface.

Q. When you are on a par 70 course and are seven under par through 13, are you thinking about 60 or 59?
BERNHARD LANGER: I really wasn't. I was just trying to play it hole by hole. I knew there was going to be some tough holes coming in but I didn't start to think ahead of myself. I just wanted to play every shot the proper way, but those are not easy holes. 15, 16 and 18 must be three of the hardest holes out there, certainly today with the wind the way it is.

Q. How many more events do you have over here?
BERNHARD LANGER: I don't know yet, it depends, I haven't fully made up my schedule yet.

Q. Does your exemption run out at the end of this year?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yes it does.

Q. Is it a priority?
BERNHARD LANGER: Somewhat, but I'm not going to play six in a row to kill myself. If for some reason I shouldn't keep my card, I will hopefully get a few sponsor invites and still play in Europe so that should give me enough tournaments to stay competitive but I would like to keep it obviously.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT