JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 19, 1993
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   General comments.  Shaky start and a good finish..

BERNHARD LANGER:  Really up and down round, like it has been that way all week, really.  I have hit a lot of good shots, but I also hit a lot of bad ones.  Same on the green.  I have made some great putts and made a bunch of three putts and other things.  Just sort of inconsistent.  Always had problems with the first, whatever, first eight or nine holes.  I seemed to play a lot better on the backside.


Q.   That is where Mize seems to have won this tournament; he has been like 31, 32 on the front. Everybody else seems to be --

BERNHARD LANGER:  It has been incredible.  Every time I looked at him, his score after five or six holes, he was 3 under par, which are, you know, pretty tough holes.


Q.   Can you imagine a guy be putting up the numbers he has this week?  Everybody else -- the group are real close.

BERNHARD LANGER:  He was just -- I played with him on Wednesday afternoon the last seven or eight holes.  And he was just in a total groove.  I mean, every shot he hit was just perfect.  You could have given him any club; the ball was just going straight to the flag and perfect distance and everything was just fine.  I was talking to my caddy and saying if I would be a betting man I would put some money on Mize this week.  He just looked brilliant.  He was totally happy with himself and his game and everything and I was not the least surprised to see him leading after two or three days and winning it.  Sometimes you get into that groove; you have a few weeks.  Hopefully every player has a few weeks a year where he is in that and --


Q.   To get the speed down and --

BERNHARD LANGER:  Yeah.  Plus the other thing is, I guess every other player in the field just made a few errors and made a few mistakes.  Nobody else seemed to, you know, really get it together for 72 holes or four rounds.


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT