THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 30, 2017
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is it about Porthcawl that you love?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it obviously suits my game, I don't know.  But it's a fantastic links course and this year played totally different to three years ago.  But it was a huge challenge with the weather conditions that we had, and the course played long and soft.   
I'm just very fortunate to pull out on top.  I didn't feel very good earlier on.  I had a sore throat for most of the week, and just thrilled to be up here again lifting this beautiful trophy.   
 Q.  It was a day that we expected you to pull away and it eventuate.  The iron play wasn't Bernhard Langer-ish; was that because of the throat?  
BERNHARD LANGER: No, had nothing to do with the throat.  My throat was better today.  My drives were good.  I was pleased with that today, but some of the irons were a little off line.  Had to do something with the wind maybe a little bit.  I felt very comfortable yesterday, five- to ten-mile-an-hour, and today was closer to 20 again, sometimes gusting more.  That just makes it a lot harder.  But there's no excuses.  I just didn't play my best golf earlier on, but on the back nine, I dug in and had some great up-and-downs.   
 Q.  A man in nearly 60, how do you do it?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, I appreciate it.  I'm trying to be an inspiration for the older guys and also for the younger generation be a role model.  I strongly believe that you can still get better in your 40s, 50s and maybe even 60s, you obviously lose strength and length off the tee and all that, but you can make up for it by having a stronger mind or better technique or better short game, which is all part of the game.   
 Q.  Holding that championship trophy once again.  What were you able to manage on the golf course so well to ultimately win?  
BERNHARD LANGER: I think I had some great up-and-downs today.  I drove the ball pretty good.  So that set me up.  But my irons weren't really sharp earlier on.  Missed a lot of greens and had to buckle down and pull some chip shots out and make some saving putts and all that kind of stuff, which I did most of the time, and towards the end, I started hitting some better iron shots.   
Hit more greens in regulation.  Gave myself a couple opportunities, and finally made a birdie on 18 to finish 1-over, which was not that bad a score, considering the conditions we were playing in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT