THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2019
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Five birdies, two bogeys on the card, a nice 67.  What do you feel like was better today?
BERNHARD LANGER: I had it going there in the middle of the round.  I missed a very short putt on the first hole.  Shook me up a little bit, thought I made it and it just bumped left or something, and it's never fun starting with a bogey.
But immediately made birdie on the next.  Had a good bounce-back.  Played some solid golf.  Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  Gave myself some chances.  I made a couple of putts, medium-length, nothing long, but I just hit a lot of greens.
I think that was probably the key today, and then a horrible bogey on 17.  Just had a total lapse there off the tee.  It's one of the widest fairways, and I missed it with a hybrid and ended up making a bogey.  That was not good, but there was a lot of good in it.
Q. Talking Wednesday, with an injury this year, but do you feel healthy mentally, emotionally, from a belief perspective?
BERNHARD LANGER: Absolutely, I feel healthy.  I just need to avoid these silly mistakes.  I make one or two silly mistakes a day, and you can't do that, and that costs you four, six, eight shots a tournament.
So I've got to be going back to being rock-solid where you just don't make those mistakes and get the lowest score possible.  That's what allows you on that given day, no matter how you play, you always want to get the lowest score possible.
Q. 67 today, really jumped back into things.  How do you feel out there on this golf course?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it's a golf course that makes you feel uncomfortable all the time.  There's just so many bunkers everywhere and no matter what club you pull, there's danger out there, and I had it going in the middle of the round.
I missed a short putt on No. 1 to bogey that one and then played very solid golf till the 17th tee shot, which was a mental lapse.  I've just got to stop having those lapses once or twice a day, and then I'll be just where I was the last few years.
Q. Any time you're near the top of the leaderboard, where you are right now, you're the man to beat, almost timeless.  What do you feel like you do better now than maybe you did earlier in your career?
BERNHARD LANGER: That's a good question.  I'm not quite sure.  But at times, I drive it better or just, you know, know more about my golf swing and know more about my game and what I can do, what I can't do, what's good for me, what's not good for me, that kind of thing.
Generally, you want to play your strengths against the weakness of the shot or of the hole, if it makes any sense.
Q. A couple back as it stands now, what are your plans for the weekend?
BERNHARD LANGER: I have a certain way of attacking each hole, playing each hole and that's probably not going to change for a while.  Unless, you know, the last few holes, Sunday or whatever, if I need to make birdies or protect par, then it might change a little bit.  But I can't see it change a great deal.
Q. After bogey on the first hole, you had five birdies.  Satisfied with your round?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, there was more in it, really, but I enjoyed the stretch in the middle, you know, from hole 2 through 16, I played very solid, 5-under for that stretch.  Just wish I could have that bogey on 1 and 17, could play those holes over, but that's golf.  You do the best every time you stand over the ball, and you've just got to take it whatever comes.
Q. After such a long day for you yesterday, was it easier this morning?
BERNHARD LANGER: Not really.  You know, I'm 62 almost, so it's tiring.  There's no doubt about it, and not just physically but also mentally.  So you've got to be aware and you've got to be focused and there's a lot of golf.  We played 36 holes within 24 hours, really.  So it's a lot of golf for me.
Q. Nice to finish positive with a nice up-and-down on 18?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, that was good.  I knew I had a club that might just not carry the bunker and it didn't, but hit a good bunker shot and a nice putt to finish.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT