THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2017
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  69 on Thursday and 74 today in equally tough conditions.  You said after that 69 yesterday you hit some squirrely shots.  How would you rate today's performance to Thursday?  
BERNHARD LANGER: It was actually much harder this morning.  The first few holes were extremely tough.  I hit driver, 3-wood on 1 and couldn't even reach the green, and 3-putted.  I didn't hit a bad shot the first four holes and I was 2-over par the first three holes.  It was that hard.  It was blowing 25 with rain.  It was just miserable.   
Right now, it's beautiful.  The guys are out there right now getting a break, but I think there may be more rain coming in.  I didn't make as many birdies and I made a couple of bogeys and that's the difference.   
 Q.  You haven't been feeling your best this week physically.  When you walk off the golf course, after 36 holes in these conditions, what is your body and mind like?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, really worn out.  I probably shouldn't even be here to tell you the truth.  I probably should be in bed but I hate to miss a major, and come this far to Wales on a great golf course.  I'm just going to grind it through.  But I won't be able to do a lot of practising just because I don't feel good, but that doesn't mean I can't play good this weekend, and I'll give it my best shot.   
 Q.  Your position, 1-over, where do you think you'll be standing at the end of the day during this championship?  
BERNHARD LANGER: I don't think I'll be too far away but you never know.  I could see where the leading score could be around even par or somewhere thereabouts.  So I'm right in the mix of things.  There's a lot of golf to be played.   
 Q.  You're used to red numbers and a lot of blue out there today.  How difficult?  
BERNHARD LANGER: It was really tough.  The first two hours or so, the wind was blowing stronger than right now and it was raining on top of it.  Just very difficult to do anything.  Even putting was extremely hard to putt.  It was just moving all over, and it's difficult to get the right distance on long putts, and that was really the difference.  Overall it was really hard on the front.  The wind dropped a little bit the last hour or two, and no rain, so it was a lot more fun.   
 Q.  Have you ever played in such difficult conditions?  
BERNHARD LANGER: No, the first hour or two was probably as brutal as I've seen it.  And I've been many places and seen a lot of things.   
 Q.  That good?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, that good.   
 Q.  Still confident you can retain the title you won here when it was here three years ago?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I'm still in a good position I think.  I shouldn't be more than a couple of shots out of the lead hopefully, but we'll see what the others do, and whatever it is, there's a lot of golf to be played yet.   
 Q.  One bogey on the back nine today, round of 74, you must be happy with that?  
BERNHARD LANGER: The yeah, the back nine was a little easier even though it's normally tougher.  But the wind laid down slightly and it didn't rain, so the conditions were a little better.   
Front nine was really brutal when we teed off.  25, 30-mile-an-hour wind, with rain, and that was miserable.  It was probably as tough as I've seen it anywhere in my whole career.   
 Q.  Now in the clubhouse, as it stands, you'll be leading.  You must be looking forward to the weekend?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it's a lot of golf to be played yet.  The conditions are still going to be hard the next two days with a lot of wind forecast and some rain, so we'll see.  Got to do a little bit better on the weekend if I want to lift the Claret Jug.   
Whether I'm leading by one or whether I'm two or three behind, we're only at the halfway stage.  So we'll see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT