U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2017
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well done today.
BERNHARD LANGER: Thank you.  Appreciate it.
Q. Particularly through the stretch, No. 12 through 15, you were --
BERNHARD LANGER: I wish I had more stretches like that all the time.
Q. Tell us a little bit about those holes -- clubs in, distance in, distance to putt, etc.
BERNHARD LANGER: I got to try to remember all of the holes.  Hang on.  10 --
Q. 12.  12 is the par 3.
BERNHARD LANGER: 12 -- I'm struggling with the holes.  Is it long or short?  Oh, it's that par 3, okay.  It was an 8 iron to about 15 feet below the hole, made a good putt.
Next one is the dogleg around the corner.  Really good drive.  Hit a sand wedge about 18 feet past the hole, made a downhill putt, which was really nice.
Par 5, I had a fantastic drive, even better 3 wood to about 8 feet, 10 feet.  But it had such a severe slope and break and downhill that I just kind of lagged it up there.  I mean, it was either have a go at it and be 6 feet by or lag it and hope it goes in, that kind of thing.  So made easy birdie there.
And then there was one more, right?
Q. Par 3 on 15 --
BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, yeah.  Long putt 3.  That was a 3 hybrid and about a 16-foot putt left to right with a foot break or so.  Yeah.
Q. Got to like your position --
BERNHARD LANGER: Had a chance on 18, but misread it a little bit.
Q. So you've got to like your position.
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah.  As we always say, you can't win the championship in the first round or in the second, but you can lose it.  So -- by shooting yourself in the foot.  So I'm in a good place, but there's a lot of great players around me.  I mean, let's not kid each other.  I just saw the leaderboard.  The top eight or ten guys is pretty big names and great players.
Q. Is the precision that you're known for an advantage for you on the golf course?
BERNHARD LANGER: It's an advantage everywhere if you are precise.  I'm serious.
Q. That's a good answer.
BERNHARD LANGER: Like I said in the interview on Wednesday, if you can hit it where you're looking, you can play any golf course in the world.  That's the hard part, hitting it there, executing it.
But this course certainly has its challenges, no doubt about it, and that's some great scores.  Just the cut being only 1 over is incredible.  It's the type of course where you don't make a lot of doubles or triples.  You can run into a bunch of birdies -- a bunch of bogeys, but not some huge numbers, generally.
Q. I asked a couple guys about pin positions and kind of wondering, did they seem hard?  Did they seem sort of maybe medium because they want to get guys around?  I mean, could they make this a lot harder?
BERNHARD LANGER: There were some pretty hard and some reasonable, and you're going to have that every day.  They're not going to have 18 ridiculous ones.  There's always a few.
Q. Six, six, and six?
BERNHARD LANGER: That's usually what they do.  But at least that's how I felt about it, yeah.  There were some that were pretty tough, but there were some that were accessible.
Q. So they could tweak it a little bit more?
BERNHARD LANGER: If they really want to go out on a limb and get some criticism, they could go crazy on this course.
Q. Does your mindset -- knowing there might some rain here, does your mindset at all change knowing maybe you have to keep making birdies as opposed to thinking par's a good score?
BERNHARD LANGER: No.  You just play hole by hole, shot by shot, and you play against the golf course.  Whatever the course gives you is what you hope to take away.
But I hope it doesn't rain too much because I like the greens to be fast and I like the course to be firm.  But if it rains, we'll play it wet.  Not the first time, it won't be the last time.
Q. Can you just speak to how Kenny played today?
BERNHARD LANGER: He played awesome.  Struggled a bit the first few holes, hit a couple of bad tee shots and was out of position, but he made some bombs.  I mean, if he adds up all the feet of putt he made today, it's close to triple figures maybe.  I don't know.  It was quite a bit.  He made some long ones.
So that's what's set you apart.  If you make three or four of these big ones, you're three or four better or maybe even five.  So that always helps, making putts.
But he's playing solid.  I mean, he's playing, you know, great shots, for the most part.  Drives it well, hits good iron shots, and today he's made some putts.
Q. How similar were the conditions to yesterday?
BERNHARD LANGER: Identical, almost.  Same kind of wind, same direction, 10 to 15 miles an hour.  So very similar, I think.
Q. Pleasant day, though?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah.  It was a little hot.  It was hot and humid.  Yeah, when we started, it was -- I was perspiring quite badly, which I don't do that quickly.  You're right, I'm ready for a shower.
No, the last hour was nice, but before that, it was pretty hot.  It was cold in the morning.  I got here at 9:00 or so, and it was actually perfect.  But then when we teed off at 2:00, it got really hot.
Q. Good job.
BERNHARD LANGER: Thanks.  Have a good evening.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT