KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2017
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First off, just take us through the round.  How were you able to survive the early part of yesterday's round the high winds and then come out and make five birdies in a row and go through that stretch?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it was really tough early on.  Downwind was hard because the ball would just release on the green and run through, so you had to play for the front edge.  If you landed short it would stick, if you landed on the green it would go.  So it was difficult to judge.
It was just hard to keep your balance.  The gusts were, I don't know how high the gusts were, felt like 35, 45 at times, miles an hour, and it was difficult to standstill even swinging or keeping your balance.  Putting wasn't easy either.
But we got through it, we got suspended there for 45 minutes because the balls were moving on the greens.  Then when we restarted it looked like 15 to 20 mile an hour winds, still very strong, but playable.
Then it eventually the wind let down and from that point on I started -- I played pretty good earlier, just couldn't score, didn't make any putts.  But made five birdies in a row, if I'm correct there, and 17, 18, 1, 2, and 3.
Then we got suspended for darkness, came back out this morning and played very solid again.  Got another couple of birdies but then made a bogey on the very last hole.
Q. You'll have the 36-hole lead again.  Obviously a position you're probably very comfortable with at this point.  How high would you say your confidence is going into the weekend?
BERNHARD LANGER: I'm playing well, but that doesn't mean anything.  We still are only halfway and we still got a long ways to go.  But I'm pleased with my ball striking and with my overall game, my putting, so it just depends if I can continue that the next two days and how well the other guys play.
Q. Would you say at this point you have a very specific game plan about how you're going to attack the golf course over the next two rounds?
BERNHARD LANGER: I always have a game plan.  Some of it depends on the pin positions, some of it depends on the wind, but there's always a game plan how to play every hole.  And that can vary according to the conditions.
Q. Do you play the golf course any differently depending if you have the lead or not?
BERNHARD LANGER: Not at this point.  Maybe the last three or six holes if I should have a large lead or if I need to make up something, then I might play it slightly different.
Q. Is there any one thing about this course that catches your eye well on this golf course when you first walked on it?
BERNHARD LANGER: No, it's, everything is good.  It gives you, some holes it gives you certain driving areas, but then it also gets narrow in certain places.  Bunkers are very punishing, very deep, even the green side bunkers are very deep.  Greens are very undulated, you can -- I just had a 3-putt on the last hole, it's very east to do.
Q. How far was the first putt?
BERNHARD LANGER: It wasn't that far, it was 45 feet but it had an 18-foot swing on it.  Just going up and over and down and across.  So it's, that does it, the greens are not easy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT