THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 24, 2019
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How nice is it to be back playing on a links course?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, it's wonderful.  I enjoy links golf very much.  I have for many years.  It's a different way of playing golf, but it's my favourite way.   
 Q.  And this is a fantastic golf course, isn't it.  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, absolutely.  A very demanding golf course, tons of bunkers, maybe more so than anywhere else I can remember, and it's going to be a challenge to stay out of them.   
 Q.  Is that the key this week is hitting the fairways and avoiding bunkers?  
BERNHARD LANGER: I think it's one of the keys.  Obviously you've always got to make putts.  If you don't putt well, you're not going to finish anywhere well.  You've got to hit the fairways, hit the greens and make a few putts.  Just the same everywhere, but yes, avoiding the bunkers is one of the key things.   
 Q.  And is it difficult to start with a par-3 opening hole?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Not really.  It's different but not any more difficult.  You're going to have to play a few par-3s sooner or later.  It's unusual.  I guess Woosie wishes it wouldn't be a par-3.  He would have probably noticed he had two drivers some years ago.   
 Q.  What would you say are the key holes?  There's quite a few demanding holes out here.  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, pretty much any of the holes can grab you, and it all depends on the wind, it really does.  Links golf is predominantly about the wind, and that can change in a heartbeat.  It could be nice now and then two hours it might blow 20 miles an hour and it might blow from the south and then it comes from the north or the west an hour later.  So it really -- that's the key.  But there's some very hard holes out there, especially the finishing -- 15 is always a monster hole.  6 is very demanding now they made a par-5 into a par-4, taken just 10, 20 yards off, but it's a very demanding green to hit with a long club.   
 Q.  You have had good memories here.  I remember you came third 18 years ago or so, so you have played well here before.  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I was co-leader going into the Sunday in 2001 in The Open Championship, and Duval played the best golf and pulled it off.  So I have some good memories from here, that's for sure.  But it's been a while ago since we've been here.   
 Q.  How is your form?  Last week was it nice to chip in in front of your home crowd?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it was a good way to finish.  A little disappointing in a sense that I couldn't make a bigger charge, but just wasn't happening.  So it was a nice way to finish.  I played decent golf.  There was a lot of good I took away from it.   
 Q.  How is your form coming into this week?  
BERNHARD LANGER: I had a wonderful start to the season with three top-3s and a win and all that, and then I got hurt, withdrew from a few events, had to go attend a funeral and some other things.  So it's been a bit of a tough stretch during the middle, but I'm healthy again, I can work at it, and looking forward to the rest of the year.   
 Q.  And this week we've got Darren Clarke, Paul Lawrie, Retief Goosen all making their debuts having turned 50.  How hard is it to keep competing in the Senior Open?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it's always hard because you're playing against the best of your era or your age on some very demanding golf courses.  It's always a difficult task.  But yes, guys like Retief and Darren, they probably hit it 30, 40 yards past me, so it's a challenge for me to make up that loss somewhere else by being more precise or better in the short game, and there will be some golf courses that will suit them more and there will be others that might suit me more.   
 Q.  And last year you gave Miguel a good battle.  That must give you confidence going into this week, as well?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, the last 12 years or 10 years I've played well in this championship.  As I said, I love links golf and had some success, won three of the Senior Open Championships and came close a few other times.  So I look forward to it.  It's always a challenge for me to play every shot under demanding conditions and against a very strong field.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT