SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2016
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's a little disappointing to finish with two bogeys, but maybe just how the day went overall.  You had a nice run there in the middle of the round.  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, there was a lot of good in my round today and even in the whole week.  Its just too many unforced errors.  I really had it going there.  I was like, what?  6-under for a span of five holes or something.  Really was doing everything well and then all of a sudden I picked the wrong club or hit the wrong shot and just got myself out of position.   
And then missed a very short putt on 18.   
Hit a bad tee shot on 17.   
So it just, I don't know.  It's frustrating, but at the same time it would have been hard to get to 18-under, I suppose.  I would have -- well if I don't make any bogeys at all today, I might have gotten close, but as I said, too many bogeys.  There was plenty of others.   
 Q.  How hard is it to make up ground like that in a final day?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, five shots is a lot, but I've done before.  I've won from seven behind.  But I had to shoot a course record to do it.   
My goal was to go low and we had it going there.  I was 6-under for the day and I still had seven holes left to get some more.  And just couldn't do it.  Didn't hit the proper shots or the proper putts to get low.  I had a great eagle chance there on 15, which I didn't convert, just didn't putt very well last few holes.   
 Q.  You played the course twice before, would you have thought coming into this week, 13-under could have possibly won this tournament?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I looked up the scores the last two times we played here and I think 13 was the number.  And it was really windy.  This week was windy.  So, this course is world class.  It shows the caliber of play out here.  There's a lot of great players and whoever gets hot can go pretty low.   
 Q.  You have done so well here, but have not gotten the victory, but three top-5 finishes at Harbor Shores, what have you liked about this course?  
BERNHARD LANGER: I usually like Jack Nicklaus courses.  Tee to green it makes you think a little bit and play to positions.  He gives you opportunities to go for certain shots or if you're not totally comfortable or if you don't pull it off, you're going to get punished.  So, it's that type of golf course.   
Some of the greens are a little severe, but they have already changed a few of them and they might lessen some of the humps a little more in the future, who knows.  But I like the layout.  I think it's a world class golf course.  A great test.   
This week we had a lot of wind, especially the last two days, it was really tough just pulling the right club and guessing the right gust.  There's small pockets in these greens and you got to hit the right pocket.  If you don't, it's very difficult.   
 Q.  You had an incredible run there at a point and then the finish maybe not what you wanted.  But can you just talk about that up-and-down day?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it was fun.  Just nice to make birdies and eagles and not so much fun making the bogeys.  But on a day like this, when you go for it, it's quite a bit of breeze out there, 15 miles an hour, gusting to 20, there's some of the holes are tough and I didn't always hit perfect shots.   
I hit a really poor tee shot on No. 5.  Made 6 there, which I lost two shots to the field making 6 there.  Most everybody makes 4 downwind on that hole.  So that was disappointing.   
But then I got myself together and rattled off four birdies and an eagle in a span of five or six holes, got myself right into the tournament again.   
And I just couldn't finish.   
 Q.  I know you wanted to win this thing, but are you happy with a top-5 finish?  
BERNHARD LANGER: Any time you finish in the top-10 out here you've played tremendous golf.  But, yes, the goal was to win it, to become the first guy to ever win five Majors or not five Majors, all five different Majors.  And this tournament has just eluded me and the clock is ticking.  So I got to try again next year.   
 Q.  Also, this place will be here every other year through 2024.  Do you like that?  
BERNHARD LANGER: I do.  As I said, I like this golf course, I love the people here; and KitchenAid, they're doing a fantastic job with the tournament; and the PGA, so we're excited coming back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT