THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 23, 2015
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Opening round of 5-under par, what pleased you most about your play today?  BERNHARD LANGER: Probably how I held it together.  My putting was pretty good, and don't feel totally comfortable with my swing yet, still working on it.  I think I get underneath it a bit which causes a push-fade and a pull-hook.  Trying to improve in that area.  But overall, 5-under is a good score, and I didn't make any major mistakes and kept it together.   Q.  Out there with Freddie and Miguel, two of the games most popular players, what was the atmosphere like?  BERNHARD LANGER: It was wonderful.  We had lots of people with us all 18 holes, great atmosphere, fantastic golf course and a couple of great gentlemen to be with.  Saw a lot of good golf shots.  It was fun.   Q.  You won The European Open here 30 years ago.  Is your strategy for this course still pretty similar to back then?  BERNHARD LANGER: You know, I forgot what strategy I had then but imagine that it's somewhat similar.  You're trying to avoid the bunkers off the tees I guess because you can get into some real trouble.  You're trying to avoid the heather and just hit quality shots.  Hit as many fairways and greens, try and keep the ball below the holes so you have uphill putts because these greens are very slopey in some areas.   Q.  Thoughts on 5-under to start?  BERNHARD LANGER: I think it's a very solid round to get going.  You don't win a tournament in the first round but you can lose it.  I didn't play my best golf today but I held it together very well.  Hit a couple of loose shots but putted fairly good and avoided the big mistakes, so I'm very pleased with 5-under.   Q.  Did you sense that there were plenty of opportunities out there in fine conditions?  BERNHARD LANGER: There is if you play great.  But yeah, I've hit some really good shots but not enough of them.  The greens are good, so you can make some putts.  The bunkers are good, nice sand, you can get it up-and-down.  It's all there but it's still very bouncy, very tricky, very firm.  Ball runs a long way on certain holes, not all of them, and you have to know where and how much.   Q.  You were telling the children at the clinic yesterday, you still get nervous when you're in front of a big crowd.  Was that the case, because there were plenty of people watching?  BERNHARD LANGER: A little bit.  Not that bad.  I just wanted to make them feel better.   Q.  Must be nice to have Jiménez and Couples beside you and garnering a gallery right from the start?  BERNHARD LANGER: It was a fantastic atmosphere, really nice.  We teed off at 9.40, lots of people walking with us all 18 holes. It was nice to be out with Freddie and Miguel.  They are both gentlemen.  Saw a lot of good shots, a lot of good golf.   Q.  Good to know that the Senior Open is held in such esteem, isn't it, really.  BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, it is.  It's a wonderful place here, Sunningdale, close to London.  Great venue.  Players love it.  We have a great sponsor with Rolex.  Takes good care of us.  And the people around here in England, they love the golf.  They come out and appreciate good golf.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT