U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 27, 2019
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I just want to get your thoughts on this course; just what kind of challenges did it present and what did you like about what it brought to the table?
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, I love the golf course.  It's a great layout and a good combination of long holes and shorter holes.  The difficulty here is obviously the rough, even though the fairways are somewhat generous.  But if you spray it into the rough, it's pretty punishing, and then the greens.  The greens are very undulated, very small, for the most part, and they all slope kind of inward.  So if you short-side yourself, you've really short-sided yourself in a bad way, because you can't get it close.
And so I think the harder part here is probably the greens and then the wind.  But we didn't have a lot of wind.  And we were fortunate to have some rain every day to soften it up.  That's why you see the good scores.  If it was firm and bouncy, I think it would be higher.
Q. Were you a little surprised at how low --
BERNHARD LANGER: I was.  Yeah, when I walked to the first tee at 2 o'clock and I saw 8-under was leading, I was going, Wow, that's quite a score.  I didn't think that was possible.  But that's how it is almost week after week.  There's always a handful of guys, somebody gets hot and they shoot low numbers.
Q. You seem to navigate the course pretty well.  What went well for you?  What were excelling at out there?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I wasn't thrilled with my driver today.  I drove it great the last three days, and today I missed at least four, five fairways, I think, or didn't hit it where I wanted to.  And that cost me a couple of shots.  Like 17 I didn't hit the fairway, reachable par-5, and I made par.  So I need to work on my driver.  The rest was pretty decent.
Q. How tough is it when there's only two par-5s out there?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, you got to earn your birdies out here.
Q. And when it doesn't happen for you, how tough is that?
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, you just got to make birdies somewhere else.  I birdied the 4th hole, which may be the hardest hole out here today.  It was like 250 today into the wind.  So I had to hit a full 3-wood, hit it to about 10 feet and made the putt.  So if you can't birdie the easy holes, you've got to birdie the hard ones.
Q. How tough is that 4, 5, 6 stretch?
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, that's three very hard holes in a row.  You've got to really buckle down and focus.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT