SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2015
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How good did that feel to birdie out on 18?  I saw the little hand gesture afterwards.  You were pretty pumped up for that one.BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I made a stupid bogey, if you can call it that, on 16.  I was 80 yards away for my third shot, it was an awkward stance on a mound and all that and just hit it too hard, came out flying and over the green. So I was a little -- and then I hit a great pitch shot from over the green and hit a perfect putt that just didn't break.  I played it left edge, thinking it's going to move and it didn't.  So, I wasn't a happy camper walking off that green, making six there. So, very pleased with the way I finished.  Finished birdie, birdie.  That is a really tough pin on 17 there, because if you miss your target by two yards, you got nothing.  And that's a lot of the golf course is that way.  So I was very happy with the finish and finishing 2-under par for the tournament and in the hunt for tomorrow, most likely.Q. You have to feel very good about your position.BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I mean a 69 is a pretty good score around here.  The course is extremely demanding.  If you don't hit the fairway, you don't know where you're going to end up. And I did that today.  I hit a lot of fairways, gave myself some opportunities.  There were still a couple of loose swings, but I had made some great swings. I holed out my second shot on 8, a 7-iron from 162 yards.  I made an eagle there.  That's a wonderful thing. And then I had two of the worst lipouts ever in my life. On number 3, I hit a putt that went in on the left, went all the way around and came out back out this way.  So it went 460 degrees, or 450 degrees and not going in. Then I had another one later on that was a pretty bad lipout as well.  All in all it evens out, I guess, somewhere.Q. How much of a charge did you get out of the eagle for the momentum that it gave you the rest of the day?BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, it was great.  That's one of the hardest holes out here, number 8.  To make a 2 there, you pretty much gain two and a half shots on the field, which was really a bonus. And I should have birdied 9, I guess, but I didn't. But going 3-under on the front nine, I thought I was in a good spot to continue that kind of play on the back side and couldn't make the putts, couldn't make the birdies. Then made a 3-putt on one of the holes and then the six on 16, which didn't help. But the finish made up for some of it.Q. Going into tomorrow, just how important is it to continue hitting those fairways and giving yourself a chance?BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, you can't play very good from the rough or from these mounds and the bunkers.  So you got to hit the fairways.  So that's going to be one of the keys.  Obviously, making putts is always important, because it's easy to 3-putt on these greens, there's so many moving putts, there's a lot of putts that don't just break twice, they break three times.  So it's very difficult to read them and to have the proper speed as well.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT