THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2014
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Started the day leading by 7, ended it leading by 8.   How would you assess your play today?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, I played very nicely to start off.   Got off to a good start, and got 3‑under after six, I think, and then, you know, maybe played a little more safe a couple of holes and hit one shot fat which wasn't great, but made bogey there, but the rest, again, the long putting was very good.   I had a good touch, hit a couple of good trick shots towards the end, and drove the ball very well, hit some amazing straight drives and long drives.   I mean the one on 18 I can't believe how far I went, but that's how it is right now.   It's very bouncy and firm, and I was fortunate not to end up in a bunker there on 18.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking, what were you feeling as the round progressed and obviously the lead was pretty constant, seven, eight shots?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, there was I think at one stage I think Monty got, yeah, to within 7 or seven, but it was always around that number.   My goal was not to really increase any shots towards the rest of the field, trying to increase the lead.   And I only increased by one, but it's better than the other way around.  
   
 Q.   Everybody will now obviously be saying this tournament is within your grasp, it's up to you.   Is that the way you feel?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Probably.   But there's still a lot of golf left, but this is a tough course.   I think we're going to have a lot of wind tomorrow, so I still have to hit a lot of good golf shots and make some putts and stay out of trouble.  
   
 Q.   How excited about the possibility of getting a hand on that Senior Open trophy that eluded you last year?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   It's very exciting.   The only major European senior golf, and it's a beautiful trophy, it's a great title, and yeah, it would be very exciting to win a second one.  
   
 Q.   Great playing today.   Well done?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Bernhard Langer, have you hit a drive any larger than that than what you did on 18?   You caught Andy by surprise, Curtis by surprise and me by surprise.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, we actually‑‑ I don't remember hitting it any further.   It was 3 81 or something like that, but we did consider 3‑wood on the tee, because in my practice round on Monday I drove it into one of those bunkers.   So I was aware of that, but I just figured it wouldn't go that far.   It was cross and helping and wasn't even straight down.   But just shows how firm the ground is right now.  
   
 Q.   Seems like the greens were more receptive today that you could go flag hunting just a little bit more.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah.   A little bit, but not a lot, especially not in the afternoon.   They might have watered a little bit in the morning, but I don't think they put any water since 7 am.   So with the wind and the sun these greens dry out.   The fairway hasn't seen water in days I would think, but that's only my guess.  
   
 Q.   Eight‑shot lead, six starting the day‑‑ seven starting the day.   The mindset, because when you go out there, there's really nothing to look forward to, and all you can do is fall back.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Oh, there's a lot to look forward.   It's a beautiful place, to start off with.   Just the scene rights I've explained is magnificent.   It's exciting to play a links course where you get some really tight lies, and you can nip the ball and if you don't nip it, you can catch it fat or thin real quick.   You gotta think a lot, and my goal was today not to let that seven‑shot lead go and maybe increase it, so I'm pleased to have an eight‑shot lead tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Game plan tomorrow?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Similar to today, just starting off fairly aggressive, not trying to be stupid and make bad judgments and just try and, you know, hit some solid shots, hit the fairways, which I did today, and that gives me the opportunity to hit some greens, and then I should be okay.  
   
 Q.   Well done.   Good luck tomorrow.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Nice third round out there.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, it was a beautiful day again.   The wind wasn't too extreme.   Now it picked up the last couple of holes, but it was just a gorgeous day as we had the whole week.   Got off to a really good start today and was 3‑under after six, and settled down with that and then had to scramble for a couple of pars.   Maybe made one of the best pars I ever made on No. 9 today from out of about a 40‑yard bunker shot or 50 and then made about a 15‑foot putt.   So that was pretty crucial.  
But overall, I drove it well.   My long‑distance putting was good.   Some of my irons could have been a little better, but being pretty picky here.  
   
 Q.   I take it you enjoyed that off the tee at the last.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, it was unbelievable.   I mean we both hit great tee shots, and I only saw one ball, and I figured, well, mine is in the bunker, I guess, and then Howard Clark was out there, and he went like that.   So I knew it was past the bunker.   I only hit sand iron in there, which is amazing.   I can't believe how far that went.  
   
 Q.   How do you approach the final round, indeed having approached the third round, when you're so far clear of the field?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I've still got a lot of golf to play, play smart, play aggressive, but not stupid, stay out of the pot bunkers, hit fairways, hit greens.   That's really my goal tomorrow.   Then I should be okay.  
   
 Q.   I think you should be okay.   Thank you.   18 holes away from a trophy again.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, still one step closer.   Still have 18 holes to go.   It's nice to have an eight‑shot lead, but still gotta keep my head down tomorrow and hit a lot of good golf shots and make some putts and play smart.  
   
 Q.   Everyone knows you're methodical, but are you going to enjoy it tomorrow because if you command the lead?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Oh, try and enjoy it, sure.   I've enjoyed the last three days, and I've enjoyed other places when I wasn't in the lead.   It's a beautiful spot when the someone's out, you can see the mountains, the hills and the ocean, the beach.   It's a very nice place to be playing golf at.  
   
 Q.   You tell me on Thursday you can go wide.   So it looks like you're going to do it.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, after the first day that was my goal, but doesn't always happen, but so far, so good.   Very pleased and very blessed to be playing such good golf in difficult conditions like this.  
   
 Q.   Wish you all the best for tomorrow.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT