U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2014
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You had some lipouts.  Seemed like you played better -- you had 71.  Seemed like you played better that than that?BERNHARD LANGER: I played better today than yesterday.  I'm happy with that.  Hit more fairways, hit more quality shots and gave myself opportunities, but the putts wouldn't go in. Actually, I thought I hit three or four pretty good putts but they all lipped out and none of them lipped in.  That's how it is some days.Q. It's 72 holes.  You're in position.  That's really what's important.BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, if you had asked me on Tuesday or Wednesday would you take three shots back and second place, I would have said I think I would, so I'm pretty happy with that. I played pretty solid golf for three days in a row and the putter was hot yesterday.  Wasn't so hot today, but, you know, we'll see what happens tomorrow.  We've still got 18 holes to go.  It's a lot of golf left, and anything can happen.Q. Was it your stroke, the holes, tough pin placements?  Do you think you had to change anything heading into a final round putting-wise?BERNHARD LANGER: No, I feel good about my putting and about my pace.  I might have pushed one or two of them and misread one or two of them.  They went over the right edge.  There is a consistency going a little right, so I have just got to release the putter and I will be in good shape.Q. What are you expecting tomorrow regarding conditions?BERNHARD LANGER: I'm not sure what to expect.  I'm just going to take one shot at a time and play the best round I can possibly play tomorrow and put some pressure on the leader hopefully and see what happens.Q. You have been in contention in so many tournaments, won some, won the last major.  Pretty comfortable position for you overall because you have been doing this now.  Your consistency has been there for quite some time.BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, I agree.  I think it's easier when you're in that position time after time than if you only get there once every five years or something like that. I look forward to it.  Gene is a great guy.  Played some very solid golf today.  Looks like we will be at it again tomorrow so should have a good day together.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT