U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Can you just talk about your round today?  It was steady.  Are you happy with your score at this point?  BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, the score was pretty decent, but the round was very up and down.  Short game was good, really good.  Made some good putts and good saves. Long game wasn't quite up to par.  Missed a lot of fairways today, and then you're behind the 8-ball and trying to struggle and scramble.   Q.  Was the course quite a bit different today and the weather conditions from the opening round?  BERNHARD LANGER: The course was similar, but the wind was different so it played different, you know, different direction of wind and fairly strong early on. So the holes played different, but can't blame it on that (smiling).   Q.  Is this a course that there is really disaster lurking at every hole?  You say you were up and down.  Can you make a big number on a whole lot of holes out here, you think?  BERNHARD LANGER: Well, you just saw Steve Elkington made 7 on the last.  Hit a beautiful tee shot, missed his second a little bit and misjudged the third.  And if you put yourself in the wrong place, yeah, you can make a big number just on any hole.   Q.  You have always been consistent, but this year, seems like every time you have the confidence like, I'm going to win this tournament.  BERNHARD LANGER: I feel like I have been in contention a lot.  I had my chances the last six, seven years.  I had a lot of chances to win.  I have won 22 times, 21 times here and one in Europe. That's a pretty good record.  But it still could be better.   Q.  Did you think that you got the score that your game delivered today?  Was that about how you played?  BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, more or less.  Might have gotten a better score.  My long game wasn't really that good.  Missed a few fairways, too many, a few too many. It's difficult from the rough to, you know, hit the greens.  But my putter was good.  Short game was pretty good.  Just got to work on hitting more fairways tomorrow, more greens.   Q.  Looks like Monty is going to finish at 6.  Do you think four rounds of what you've done -- I guess you're 4-under.  Do you think 8 would get you there in this deal?  BERNHARD LANGER: I'm not Jesus.  I don't know what the future holds, so I have no idea.  All I can do is play the best I can, because I don't know what Monty does or Mr. Dunlap or any of the other guys that are thereabouts. So, you know, you can shoot anything.  Somebody can shoot a 63 and somebody can go 78 that's in the lead.  So you don't know.   Q.  You told us before you started you didn't recall  the '88 PGA and this course much.  Now that you've played these days, is it as challenging or difficult as you recall?  BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, when I played my practice rounds I said this was one of the hardest courses I ever played.  The USGA ranked it third or second hardest golf course in America from the slope rating, and I can certainly see that.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT