SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2014
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY ELBIN:   With three birdies on the back nine today, Bernhard Langer in with 69, one shot behind Colin Montgomerie going into the final round of the 75th Senior PGA Championship Presented By KitchenAid.   You two Ryder Cup captains have played three rounds together and you get one more shot tomorrow.   Are you looking forward to the opportunity?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, definitely.   It's always fun playing with Colin and we go way back.   We played many times on the European Tour around the world and also on the Ryder Cup we were partners on a number of occasions, so we know each other's games pretty well and our caddies know each other, so it's fun being out with him and this will be four days in a row, I guess.   
KELLY ELBIN:   You had that tough sledding on number 7 with the bunker.   Could you go through that and then the birdies, the three birdies on the back nine, please.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, I hit a really good tee shot there and had to hit a hard 6‑iron to get it up there; and hit it just a little fat, came up short, and it plugged in the face of that huge bunker.   I don't know what you call that thing.   There was way too much sand in it.   There was this much sand in the face of the bunker.   (Indicating)   I think whenever you design or have bunkers like that, there should be no sand in the face and the ball should roll down.   But that's my personal opinion.   
Anyways, I had no shot.   If I try and play it towards the flag, there's no way I get it over that huge hump in front of me.   So if I tried to play it sideways, that was no good.   So I tried to play it backwards just to get it down on the flat part of the bunker, maybe it get it out of the bunker.   But that was really tough, because the ball was buried so far.   I got through this much sand (Indicating) to even get to the ball.   
Anyway, I moved it about three yards and then hit my fourth shot up there to about 25 feet and made two putts for double.  
KELLY ELBIN:   The birdies on the back.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   10 was a drive and then a 2 hybrid, full sand iron to about seven feet.   
11 was a 9‑iron.   Made about a 30‑footer.   
15 was a driver, 4‑iron, just pin high right about six yards, seven yards off the green.   I used the putter and putted up to about four or five feet and made the putt.  
KELLY ELBIN:   You birdied that hole every day, 15.   You must like it.  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, I need more of those holes.   
KELLY ELBIN:   Absolutely.   Open it up for questions.   
   
 Q.   In 2012 you were in contention going into the final day as well, do you maybe approach this last day differently than you did in 2012 or kind of just keep playing the way you have been?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   2012 here?   I'm not sure I was in contention.   I was so many shots back, what I remember anyway.   I had a really good last day to finish fourth, but I feel like I was 10 shots behind Roger or something like that.   I don't know how many I was behind, but way too many.   
So this is a little bit different.   I still need to play very aggressive tomorrow, smart aggressive, as I call it, take my chances, because Colin is playing very solid golf and there's a whole bunch of other guys.   If any of them post a 6‑ or 7‑under in front of us then we have our work cut out to just stay in touch.   
So there's a lot of tough holes out there, some very good pin positions, and it will take some really good golf to be the champion at the end of the day.   
   
 Q.   Is it any different playing in a final round, final grouping with someone that you do know so well and have played so much with?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, maybe a little bit, but not a great deal because when you play two balls, you really don't have a whole lot of time to talk anyway.   Because you got to get moving.   There's not a whole lot of time to stand around unless there's trouble up front and you're waiting and then you can, like today, we waited on a number of holes, and that's when you can chit chat and talk a little bit.   
But most of the guys out here, we have known each other for so many years, we're all pretty much friends and there's really not a bad pairing out here, I think most of the guys are really great guys and fun to be with.   
   
 Q.   You've played with Colin in this kind of situation before, too, in Majors and everything else.   Does he still have the same fire that he had when he was on the Regular Tour?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Oh, you bet.   You can ask him that himself, but I'm guessing he does.   He was pretty much into it today.   He had the blinders on pretty much and was raring to go.   I think he wants to win very badly on the Champions Tour.   He hasn't won and he's been out here for a number of months.   
We were in the last pairing in Houston just a few weeks ago and everybody wants to win, there's no doubt about it and especially a Major.   
KELLY ELBIN:   Bernhard Langer, one shot back going into the final round.   Thank you, sir.  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Thank you.   Have a good evening.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT