SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2014
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY ELBIN:   Bernhard Langer, in with 3‑under par 68.   4‑under par, along with your two playing competitors today.   Kind of a unique situation of three big name players all of them finishing the same total after two rounds.   Looked like you had some enjoyment, had some fun out there and real good golf.
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, it was a pretty good three ball, I guess.   We spurred each other one and three Hall of Famers playing together, that's always fun.   It's fun seeing good golf and you get inspired by it and we help each other along, I think.   It's certainly more fun than watching somebody make bogey after bogey or double bogeys and see good shots and good putts.
KELLY ELBIN:   You had some good play from the start.   If you would go over your birdies starting at 1 and 2 and then extending into the back nine, please.
BERNHARD LANGER:   Hit a good 3‑wood off the first tee and 9‑iron to about four feet. 
Then 8‑iron on the second, made about a 15‑footer. 
Then just kind of trudged along with a bunch of pars.   Some more exciting than others. 
Then 11, that was another 9‑iron to about six feet. 
Then 14, I hit a really good 3‑wood off the tee and just had 6‑iron in, just caught it a little heavy, came up about eight yards short of the green and then decided to I can at that the putter and misjudged the first putt, left it short probably about eight feet and then missed the next one.   So that was disappointing there.   From the middle of the fairway.
But then 15, I got another, well, another, it was not a good break, I hit a really good tee shot there and landed on the up slope, picked up a little mud and rolled over the hill on the finished on the down slope, so now I'm facing a front pin, downwind of a down slope, with a little mud on it.   I decided to go with a 6‑iron and just didn't carry enough, hit the top of the bank and bounced back down the bank of the water hazard.   But I was able to play it, had a decent lie, and actually got up‑and‑down.   Pitched it from the hazard there to about three feet and made the putt. 
So in the end it all turned out okay.   So overall it was fairly solid, couple of loose shots in there.   I'm trying to improve on that this afternoon, practicing a little bit, but otherwise, pretty decent score. 
KELLY ELBIN:   Thank you.   By our count you've hit 24 of the 26 fairways over the first two rounds.   Pretty good ball striking off the tee. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, yeah, I think off the tee I was pretty good. 
KELLY ELBIN:   I should say.   Open it up for questions. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Thanks, I'm going to enjoy my lunch. 
(Laughter.) 

Q.   The fact that you all played well, if somebody sometimes gets off to a bad start, things go the other way, that will certainly, a couple birdies early, that set the tone, didn't it?
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, it helped me, I guess, to just ‑‑ I knew I had to play a decent round today to catch up with the leaders.   On this golf course you never know what's going to happen, there's some low scores out there, but there's also some high numbers. 
So it was good to get in the red numbers right away and felt good about my game starting off. 

Q.   It's a little early in the season to be thinking maybe Charles Schwab Cup, but last year you had all the Top‑10s and Kenny Perry kind of snaked you there at the end with the Charles Schwab Cup, making all the top‑10s again this year, are you keying on that Charles Schwab Cup?   Is that at the foremost of your thoughts for the rest of the year?
BERNHARD LANGER:   I think everybody wants to win the Charles Schwab Cup that's played on the Champions Tour.   Everybody wants to win the FedExCup on the Regular Tour and the Race to Dubai on the European Tour.   That's just the way it is. 
But to get there you got to play an awful lot of good golf throughout the year.   You're not going to win it just winning a major or two and you're not going to win it just having five or ten Top‑10s, it's got to take a lot of good golf throughout the whole see some. 
And so far, so good.   I won the first tournament coming out and I've been ‑‑ my caddie has been sporting the yellow jersey ever since, so hopefully that will continue until the end of the year.   But, yeah, there's a lot of good golf or a lot of golf left, so we don't know.   It's too early for that. 

Q.   When you're playing in a group like you were today, is there an appreciation for the guys that you're out there with?   Is there a little more sort of banter or laughs or sort of how does that play out when you got three Hall of Famers that are out there?
BERNHARD LANGER:   It sure does.   We have played a lot of golf together, the three of us.   We have known each other for a very long time and that is part of the fun on the Champions Tour that you do know most of these guys and you know them well. 
I think we all have respect for each other, for what we have done on the golf course, over the years.   The people out there do as well.   They watch us and spur us on and cheer us and it's just fun being out there with great guys. 
KELLY ELBIN:   Bernhard Langer, among a group at 4‑under par.   Thank you. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Thanks.   You don't want any advice for the Ryder Cup or anything like that? 
(Laughter.)   Okay.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT