MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2013
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Well, Bernhard, thanks for joining us.   5‑under, 67 today.   No bogeys.   Maybe just get us started, talk about your round and then we'll get your shot sequence on your five birdies and some questions.
BERNHARD LANGER:   All right.   Overall I played very well.   Obviously in these conditions, very windy and gusty conditions out there.   The new greens are very firm.   So it's not easy to stop the ball on the greens in certain places.   They all slope off. 
Hit a lot of fairways today which helps me control my distance with my irons.   It's a lot easier from the fairway than from the rough.   Putted pretty nicely, too.   Had a lot of good speed on my putts, gave myself a lot of chances with the putts.   I was a bit unlucky on some occasions, but overall I was very pleased. 
I played pretty good yesterday but made too many bogeys.   I made three bogeys, otherwise it would have been a great round yesterday as well. 
So the birdies, first one came at No. 3, hit driver, 3‑wood just left of the green, about 20yards, pitched it up to‑‑ you want meters or feet?   Probably sixfeet. 
Then the fifth hole was a driver, about sixyards short of the green, pitched it up to, again, four or fivefeet. 
No. 8, try to remember that hole.   I can't remember the hole now.   Anybody can help me?   What does it look like?   I think I got it now.   I hit driver, I believe, and then a 9‑iron and made a putt from probably 30feet back edge of the green.
THE MODERATOR:   Then the two par‑5s on the back nine.
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, the first one, I hit 3‑wood, 4‑iron, 9‑iron to about tenfeet. 
And then the next one, I hit driver, 2‑hybrid, 2‑putted from probably 60feet.   And that was it. 
THE MODERATOR:   How much difference today was the wind compared to yesterday? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   In the end it was very similar.   There was a little bit of stretch in the middle when it seemed like, you know, there were like 10 to 15, 20‑mile an hour, but there were times yesterday when it felt like 25, 30‑mile‑an‑hour winds. 
Today at the end it felt very similar the last few holes.   Probably hit two of the best 6‑iron I could ever hit.   It was at least a 2‑putt wind.

Q.   Which part of your game served you the best today?   Was it your putting, your chipping, your second shot, your driver? 
BERNHARD LANGER:   Good question.   I was very pleased with my driver today.   Hit a lot of really good drives, hit the fairways. 
Then my iron game was pretty good, too. 
I was happy with the speed of my putts.   I didn't leave myself a lot of 4, 5, 6‑foot putts.   They were all very close if they didn't go in.   The best part may have been my driver today.

Q.   The forecast is for tough conditions tomorrow with cold weather.   Will it be tougher to hold the lead in that kind of condition?
BERNHARD LANGER:   That's a good question.   If you play well, the golf course is very difficult right now.   Even without wind it would be very difficult because of the newness of the greens.   They are very hard and they all slope off.   So you have got to be very precise.   When you have wind like this, it makes it that much harder. 
I'm not sure if I can answer that question properly, but you have got to play well no matter what.   If the conditions are easy, you still got to play well because somebody might shoot 6 or 7‑under.   If the conditions are hard, you still got to play well to shoot even par to be 2 or 3‑under.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT