THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2013
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, obviously not what I wanted, but the major mistake was again yesterday, the 72nd hole, the second shot. 
As I contemplate on it, I should have just laid up and played for bogey instead of trying to make par or something else.   I was trying to take the bunkers out of play and go long, but that wasn't the right club and the right shot anyways.   And in a playoff, anybody can win.   You know, it comes down to one good shot or one bad shot, and that's what happens. 
Mark is a very deserving champion, played a great week of golf, and we know he's a great putter and he's hit some really good shots this week.   Played with him Saturday.   Played awesome golf and very deserving champion. 

Q.   And in this playoff itself, it looked like you were matching each other just shot for shot, similar challenge for similar challenge?
BERNHARD LANGER:   Pretty much.   It's just a hard hole to make birdie with this pin position tucked behind the bunkers, such a long hole. 
You know, he hit the better shot there.   He hit the green.   I was short of the bunker on a very tight lie and he made par and I made bogey and that's what it comes down to in a playoff.   It's one good shot or one bad shot, can make all the difference. 

Q.   Were you actually able to get any sleep last night, or were you thinking very much about the hole, running it through your head?
BERNHARD LANGER:   I thought about it for a little while, but I think I got some rest.   You know, focused on what I had at hand today.

Q.   What is next for you?
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, we are going straight from here to colon where the Berenberg Masters is happening this week in Cologne.   And after that, have a week off in Germany, celebrate my mother's 90th birthday.   So that's pretty nice to hopefully be all together, the whole family, and have a great celebration. 

Q.   And we'll see you back for the Senior Open in Royal Porthcawl next time; don't know how familiar you are with that track. 
BERNHARD LANGER:   I've played there once or twice, a long, long time ago.   But it's a beautiful links track and a good test of golf, so look forward to that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT