THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2013
Bernhard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We thoroughly enjoyed watching this.   How much are you enjoying doing it?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   I very much enjoyed it.   A fantastic golf course that rewards good shots.   Thank God I hit a lot of good ones.   There were the odd other ones, and it's always a struggle to get up‑and‑down and do something special to make par, and most of the time I was able to do that when I needed to, and it was almost flawless except the 3‑putt, that hurt a little bit.   
I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in, but that's golf.   They are not billiard tables.   It's grass which grows and footprints and other stuff, so you don't always read them correctly.  
   
 Q.   Our commentators are suggesting this is about as good as they have seen you in a long time; is that the way it feels to you?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Yeah, it does.   This is as good as I can play for a big stretch of the holes today.   It was a lot of fun.   When you are hit the ball where you're looking and pull it off and hit it, it's fun to hit crisp shots off this kind of turf.   I love this kind of golf because the ball sits up and there's not too much grass around and you can really spin the shot.   It's a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   People will expect you to win from here; do you expect to win?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Oh, there's a lot of golf left.   We all know that.   You know, there's somebody inside me that expects me to win, but I know there's 18 holes left, and there's a lot of shots to be pulled off and a lot of putts to be made.   
So golf is not over till it's over, and as I said, we've got 18 holes to play.   
   
 Q.   How special would it be to win your second Senior Open?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, it's always special to win any tournament, but to win a major and to win it on a golf course like this, would mean a lot.   
   
 Q.   At the start of the week, talking about how disappointed you were, is that still driving you on?  
BERNHARD LANGER:   Well, I told you before, I don't need any extra drive.   I have a lot of drive inside of me every day no matter where I play, and this is certainly a tournament I would love to win again.   It's the only senior major we have in this country, or on this continent, I should say, and it's a lot of fun playing on these type of courses against the best in the world.  
   
 Q.   You said in the other interview that this is as good you can play in that stretch, but that would really apply for the three days, wouldn't it.   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Most of it, yeah.   There were a couple loose shots but for the most part, I played very, very solid golf.   And I want to thank my coach, Willi Hofmann, who I saw a week ago in Germany who has been with me for 40 years, and he pointed something out that I had not been doing lately.   It's made a big impact on my ball‑striking.   
   
 Q.   What did he point out?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   It looked like I was maybe tilting slightly, if you want to call it that.   It was just my shoulder turn was too upright, so I'm trying to swing a little flatter on the backswing.   Felt very awkward at first because I've been swinging the other way for a few weeks and months, but gradually getting used to it now.  
   
 Q.   Is this almost as good as you've played since winning the Masters?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   Definitely.   I've hit so many good shots the last few days where just they feel good and come off right where I want them to go and they go the proper distance, and it's just fun playing golf that way because it doesn't happen very often.   
   
 Q.   When you see what Tom Watson and Greg Norman pulled off at The Open in recent years, and you playing the way you are at the moment, do you think, you know, I could do that?   
BERNHARD LANGER:   I've been saying that for the last few years.   I said sooner or later, it's going to be a senior or somebody over 50 that wins a regular major.   There's no doubt in my mind.   You know, on some courses, it's much harder when they are very long, but if you get a course that is medium‑length or a little short, there's definitely guys out here that can pull that off.   You've got Couples that is still very long, and Kenny Perry.   
So there's probably six to ten guys I think right now, and there's others coming up that are capable of pulling it off.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT