NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Dainius Zubrus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Are you surprised?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  After the season I went -- when I finished I went to New York to see my agent and then I did some talking and testing with Philadelphia, so I am glad I picked Philadelphia, I am real excited, but I think I think it is a great place.


Q.  Do you know much about the team?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Yeah, I know.


Q.  Are you surprised you got picked this high in the draft?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I am not surprised.  I think I deserve to be that high.  I think there is no surprises for me.


Q.  You ended up playing Tier 2 junior, why was that, what was the situation there?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Just that I didn't really like --  LaValle Titans, Quebec Major Juniors at that time I knew Jay already, my agent, and he what he did, he looked for a team.  He said I think the best place to go  was --


Q.  How was it like there, kind of a tough League?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  No.


Q.  A lot of Russians there?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I had my friend Demetri who is here with me.  He will probably be selected in the second or third round.  It was -- I knew the style of game and everything because the team that I played for, it is a very good team and we have been travelling for a lot of years.  I have been in over like eight or nine times there with the team and the coach, so we played over 250 games in four years and I knew what kind of game it would be and I was prepared for that.  I am thinking getting in the best shape right now and give it the best shot this year; if not, then I think next year or two years it is possible.


Q.  How did you learn so many languages?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I speak four languages Ukrainian, Russian, Lithuanian and English.  Just because I was born Lithuanian, I talked to them in Lithuanian; then I went to Ukraine; most of the people, they speak Russian, but still -- and then English when I started travelling, that was the time that when I started a little bit to get into that, in Ukraine, you can't really learn the language -- you can, but it is not as good as if you come over and talk to people.  So I came over and talked to people, watched TV and listened and stuff like  that, so that was a good way.


Q.  The Flyers have had some Russian players who have had difficult with the language; it hurt their progress here.  Do you have a sense that being able to speak English you will be able to catch on quicker here?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Yes, I think language -- I think language is a good thing to know - you can talk to the teammates, you can talk to guys and stuff.  If you cannot, it is kind of -- I think when you don't know the language, you are kind of away from the team; you don't know what they are thinking.  So the language helps you get into the team, talk to the people or something like that.


Q.  Does that make you a better player mentally?  Do you feel you have a good grasp of the game and good handle on adapting to the North American style?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Yeah, I think some I think when you know the language, you are more into that.  I think it helps a lot.


Q.  How do you compare the players in the NHL....

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I like a couple -- I like lots of players, but I think I'd like to -- if you can mix Federov and Ross, that would be something that I would be.


Q.  That is a good mix.

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Thank you very much.


Q.  You are obviously tall, I understand you are -- what  do you like to do, do you see yourself as a playmaker?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Different times I turn into a different player.  Like sometimes I am more of a goal scorer; then I get -- lots of times I try to be more like playmaker.  I can't really say that I -- that I am one of the sides.  I am somewhere between that, like playmaker and goal scorer because I can score goals.  I can make plays too.


Q.  What part of your game do you feel you have to work on?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I think I have got to concentrate more on defensive game because I think that is one of the sides that I have to work.


Q.  Do you feel maybe the scouts overlooked you a little bit because you played Tier II?  You are sort of a well kept secret.

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I think if I was to play in major junior, it would even be better for me.  I think I would have been -- scouts would have liked Union more because when I play that level you get the puck and you can get the puck every time you want it, so it was kind of, I think at the higher level, I think it would have been better.


Q.  Why did you not want to play in LaValle?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I think that the organization -- I just decided not to.


Q.  So you had problems with people there? 

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  A little bit.


Q.  You have one more year of junior left?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  No.  I played Tier II; now I am free whatever I want to do, I can do because I am not in the CHL, so....


Q.  Talking with the general manager - I don't want to give away anything he felt, like maybe another year, I know you are a junior, would be good for you.  Do you feel it would be good for you?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Whatever they think.  If they think that is the best way to develop me, I think that would be great.


Q.  Have you seen the Flyers much this season?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Yeah, I watched.


Q.  What did you think?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I like the team.  I thick their -- I like the team.  I like the way -- I like lots of players on the team, most of them and I think it is a really good team.


Q.  They play kind of a physical game?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Physical and skill technique.  That is what I like.


Q.  You grew up in the Ukraine; is that right?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I grew up 'til about ten years, 11 years old in Lithuania; then I moved to Ukraine.


Q.  Why did you move? 

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Why?  Because I met met my coach which was in Ukraine; then I met all the guys on the team and I thought that is the best team; that is the best coach and I wanted to go there.


Q.  How long ago was that?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  That was about six years ago.


Q.  You were pretty young?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Yeah, I was.


Q.  Did your parents go too?  Did they mind?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  No.  They worried, of course.  It was kind of hard the first year for me but after that, I got used to that.


Q.  You have been away from home?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Yeah.


Q.  Did you see your parents very much?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Not too often, but when I got the chance I, of course, go and see them.


Q.  Do you have brothers and sisters?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I have a brother.  He is turning 20 in August and I have a sister, she is 11.


Q.  Did you get to see them a lot while you were out --

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  They live with my parents, so when I go to see my parents, I can see them too.


Q.  Did the Flyers -- did you get a sense that you were going to be selected by them or did you have a couple of teams  that you thought might go for you?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I don't know.  You really don't know in a draft what is going to happen.  So I was -- I just sat there, I wait.


Q.  Who else talked to you a lot, were there other teams that --

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  I had lots of interviews in the last two days.  I did 11 interviews in the last two days, so I don't know.


Q.  You're agent is Jay?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  Jay Grossman.


Q.  Has he talked to you at all about your intention; when you would sign a contract?

DAINIUS ZUBRUS:  No, we haven't really talked about it.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT