MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 12, 2011
Emily Carter
Jeff Mittie
Helena Sverrisdottir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Utah - 52 (OT)
  TCU - 47

 THE MODERATOR: We're ready to begin with TCU. Coach, if we could start with you, just some comments on today's game. 
 COACH MITTIE: Well, it was a hard-fought game. Obviously Utah made a couple more plays than we did. I thought the rebounding hurt us today, where yesterday we rebounded so well. Today we just struggled. Second half our rebounding was much better, but we still only get four offensive rebounds. We didn't really get any second chances. They were able to get 12 offensive rebounds. That's really the difference in the game for a couple extra opportunities. 
 Credit goes to Utah, though. They played very physical. We seemed to struggle with that in the early part of the game. I thought we adjusted better as the game went on. We fought hard. Proud of our group for fighting hard to come back. 
 We take the lead in the early overtime and we just can't make that one more extra play to push it to a four- or five-point, get a little bit away from them. That's a credit to Utah's defense. They're very physical and very solid all the way around. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for our student-athletes. 

 Q. Utah got off to a 16-2 start. That was a little surprising. Fourth game in five days. Did that surprise you? Talk about the slow start you had to overcome. 
 HELENA SVERRISDOTTIR: We obviously wanted to get a good start. That didn't happen. They were really physical. 
 We should have known. We knew that they were a physical team. But it kind of surprised us. They were checking us on every cut. 
 But I think, you know, second half we came together. But obviously the start definitely hurt us today. 

 Q. Can you talk in broad terms about you making it to the title game for the first time, how losing this has to be tough as a senior. 
 EMILY CARTER: Yeah, it's tough as a senior. We finally made it to the title game for our senior year, and to lose in it hurts. It hurts pretty bad. 
 We fought back. We fought hard. I think we let them get up early. We fought back till the end, but they just made more plays down the stretch. That's how the game came out. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll dismiss the student-athletes and continue with questions for Coach Mittie. 

 Q. Plouffe scored eight in the overtime. There was a stretch where Utah was not making their jump shots but when they needed it most, especially Plouffe in overtime, they were able to get open looks. 
 COACH MITTIE: Yeah, she got the one jumper that was kind of the hustle play that kind of got batted around and all of a sudden ended up in her hands. That's where she's really good. She's really good in the midrange game. She kind of had to fight through the middle part of the game where she was missing some jumpers. Boy, it was big. She stepped up huge, had a huge night. 

 Q. Rodrigues hit two three-pointers at the shot clock buzzer back to back down the floor. Stuff like that seemed to be going Utah's way. 
 COACH MITTIE: Those were our breakdowns. If you noticed in the second half, they didn't get that same look when Badon penetrated. That's what we were supposed to do. Our team did not handle the early part of the game well at all. They lost discipline. They did things that we had talked about in the scout. Once we settled into it, we played it pretty well. 

 Q. Will you speak to the 16-2 start, how much that surprised you, or not? 
 COACH MITTIE: Well, this team has struggled with the starts all year. It's been very inconsistent. I was probably more surprised by yesterday's start. We haven't had a start like that. 
 It's been the Achilles' heel for this basketball team, is that they have dug themselves some holes. Today we had to use so much energy coming back. I was glad we got it to 10 at half, felt like we had it at a manageable number. Points were hard to come by. Our defense and rebounding improved, so we had a chance to get back into this thing and we did. 

 Q. I know you don't want to make excuses, but how big of a loss is not having Crawford and Thompson out there? 
 COACH MITTIE: Well, I think you always want to come in as healthy as you can. We're really as healthy as we can be. 
 But, you know, we had the energy to overcome that yesterday with our rebounding, and today we did not. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, coach. 
 COACH MITTIE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT