CITI OPEN
August 3, 2019
Camila Giorgi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GIORGI/C. McNally   
7-6, 6-2   
 Q.  This is your first time playing Caty; what was your strategy going into the match, and what did you think of her play?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Oh, it's like, as always, I focus on myself, on my game.  I played a good match, very good.  I mean, I tried to be more aggressive than usual, so it was good.   
 Q.  Your first Citi Open final tomorrow and you're going to be playing Jessica Pegula, and apparently you beat her in a prior match.  Do you have any thoughts on the match tomorrow and --  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yes.  I will focus on myself.  It's going to be another good match, so this is the more important.   
 Q.  Just talk about your momentum this week.  Sachia Vickery was red hot in quallies and you took care of that in straight sets.  You had that one set against Peterson that you lost, but other than that it's been straight sets all week.  Is it the conditions?  Is it your training?  Is it your timing?  What's propelling you to the final?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I think it's the training.  It's about practice and improving every day.  That's all.   
 Q.  How rewarding is it for you?  I know it's been difficult year at times, some injuries, but to have a week like this given what you've been through, how gratifying and special is it in that context?  
CAMILA GIORGI: No, it was not -- the word is not difficult.  It was just -- the good thing is I'm here.  I'm playing good.  What is passed, it's already passed, so I focus on each day.   
 Q.  You had an opportunity to close out the first set early on and then it lingered and you finally did it in the tiebreak.  What was going through your mind, and how did you focus to get yourself back on track?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Oh, no, I was more aggressive after, and it happens when you try to play your game.  Sometimes it happens you do some mistakes.  But I always played good level today.  I think it's just I did more mistakes in this first set, so it's for that I went -- I mean, in tiebreak.  If not, I wasn't going tiebreak.   
 Q.  How do you improve?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Practicing a lot.   
 Q.  I knew you were dealing with a little bit of a wrist injury prior to this tournament.  I'm curious if that's been a factor in how you've played or sort of come back at this point.  
CAMILA GIORGI: No, is like I say, is not a drama.  It was just a period, and the good thing is I'm playing good today.  This is the more important.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT