FEDCUP WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: ITALY v U.S.A.
February 8, 2014
Corrado Barazzutti
Camila Giorgi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. GIORGI/M. Keys
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
CAMILA GIORGI:   Yes, of course.   I mean, was good I play like this.   I came into the court, I was not nervous.   Was good.   Especially I was feeling good.   
   
 Q.   Have you been working on your serve?   
CAMILA GIORGI:   Yes, we are working many, many things, not only the serve.   
Today went good everything.   
   
 Q.   She said you played so fast that she didn't have an opportunity to get into the match.   Did you feel from the beginning you were playing incredible tennis?  
CAMILA GIORGI:   Yes, I was feeling good.   I was not tense, so this make me more confident.   
   
 Q.   Talk about being 2‑0 up on the first day.   You have to be very pleased.   
CAPTAIN BARAZZUTTI:   Yeah, we are pleased.   Not happy.   We wait tomorrow.   Is a good result for us today to be 2‑Love.   It's very good.   
Well, anyway, we have to wait tomorrow.   We have to play till tomorrow.   We need the one point more, so we wait to be really, really happy.   
We are just 2‑Love on the first day.   Is true that it is much better to be two up than two down, but the matches are not finished yet and we have to wait.   
I want my players to stay on the ground with their foot.   We just play well today and we'll see tomorrow what happened.   
   
 Q.   (Question about adjusting play for tomorrow and changing tactics.)   
CAPTAIN BARAZZUTTI:   I don't change any tactic.   I just try to make the player in very good feeling to play the match, play in the court without too much pressure.   
To play in Fed Cup is always very difficult for the pressure that you have.   You play for your team, you play for your country.   That is very tough, it's very difficult.   
Camila was the first time in the match.   But I just want to try to make a good atmosphere in the team.   I think is the right way to have a very good performance.   
We hope that the players play well.   This time it's happen.   We won two match.   Camila play very, very good.   We talk, for sure, about tactic and strategy, too.   They work all the week to try to play as much better as possible.   
We try to make a very good feeling to play on the court without too much pressure and play.   Just play tennis, and just try to do the best for herself, that's it.   
Sometimes they play well, sometimes not.   This time, for today, we are very pleased.   
   
 Q.   Was that one of the best matches you have played?  
CAMILA GIORGI:   No, I mean, was regular match.   I mean, not the only one I play like this.   I came into the court with confidence, so everything works, went good.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
CAPTAIN BARAZZUTTI:   Well, we won four titles.   That is very important for Italy.   Is very, very good.   
I know is difficult, them, to play with this on the back.   Is very heavy.   But what I think is that we have to try hard.   Every time is a new challenge.   
We are in the court.   We try.   We try hard.   Them, forget if we won three, four, five titles.   Every day is a new day, a new challenge.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT