THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 9, 2018
Camila Giorgi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GIORGI/E. Makarova   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you see the match?  How do you feel about being at this stage at Wimbledon?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I think it was a great match.  I was very consistent.  I think all the points was very good playing.  Some mistakes, but I play my game.  Nothing, was very good match, good level.   
 Q.  Are you surprised it's taken you this long to get this far in a Grand Slam?  
CAMILA GIORGI: No, I'm not surprise.  I always work to be here, so I think it's -- I don't know.  In the last two years I was always, like, injury sometimes, have many problems physically.  I think this year I have more continuity.  It's for that I can make here.   
 Q.  With many of the most familiar players out of the tournament already, there will be a lot more attention on you.  How would you describe yourself as a player and a person?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I don't know.  I don't like to talk about me.   
But I think I'm aggressive player.  I like to go forward when I'm playing.  Yeah, sometimes you get more mistakes, but is normal.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to be at this level here at Wimbledon?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I play some few good matches, so I think it's just this.  I mean, I had few good matches here, so it was great.   
 Q.  Earlier in your career, the double-faults were a big problem.  You seem to have corrected that.  Is that something you worked very hard on?  
CAMILA GIORGI: No, I think the serve, it's one of the points I have more -- I mean, I can't complain about my serve.  I think it's a great shot, one of my best shots I think.  I do more double mistakes because I push harder, so it gets more mistakes.  It's my game to play more aggressive and do more mistakes, but I will not change that.  Yes, to improve, but not change.   
 Q.  You're playing some pretty fearless tennis at Wimbledon this year, really going for your shots.  Are we seeing the real Camila?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yes.  It was a very good match, like I say, very consistent.  So that's all.  It was a good match.   
 Q.  You're really attacking the ball, going to the net, putting volleys away.  You're comfortable on grass?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yes.  But this year I start good the year.  I'm playing good.  Of course, now I think I'm playing better than the start of the season.  I think I did a great matches, so I hope to keep going.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on your most likely opponent, Serena Williams?  You've played her before.  What are your thoughts on playing here now and here?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I think I'm focused on my game.  I will be focused on my game.  And we see.  I mean, like I say, I'm playing a very good tennis, so I think on myself and that's all.   
 Q.  What do you most like about what you've seen over the years, the way she plays?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I don't follow tennis, woman tennis, and I don't follow tennis.   
But I think is going to be a good match.   
 Q.  All of the top-10 seeds are now out on the women's side.  There have been so many upsets.  Why do you think that is this year at Wimbledon?  Any reason in particular?  
CAMILA GIORGI: No.  There is no reason, no particular reason.  I think we are just womans, and that happen.  I mean, is not a surprise.  I mean, it's normal.  Can happen.   
 Q.  If you compare your game now to five years ago, what would you say are the main differences or changes?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I was less experience.  I was a little girl.  Is completely different.  Now I have many matches, much more matches.  I think I'm playing better, of course, because I have more years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT