SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2018
Camila Giorgi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GIORGI/P. Kvitova
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A very good performance today against Petra.
CAMILA GIORGI: Thank you.
Q. Talk me through the match a little bit.  It was a very tough first set, and it seemed like you were serving well and also defending better than maybe in the past.
CAMILA GIORGI: Yes, today I was very consistent in all the court.  I was trying to do my serve and more consistent maybe for sure of the first matches here.
So I just did my game I need to work today.
Q. She served for the first set, and you had those set points earlier in the set.  How much pressure were you feeling towards the end of the first set?
CAMILA GIORGI: No, I just -- actually, I was just focusing on my game and trying to play as aggressive I can maybe -- I was focusing on myself.  Not too much of the score.
Q. How much did you work on your serve during the offseason?  Seems like today and during this tournament in Sydney the serve has been, especially the second serve, has been a better shot for you than maybe in the previous years.
CAMILA GIORGI: Actually, yes, I did a lot of work in the preseason, a lot.  But the serve now, it's much fluid.  This maybe is the more important thing.
Last year I couldn't serve very good, because I had always problems physical with arm, so it was difficult to use my serve.
Q. During the preseason when you worked on your serve, was it more of a technical -- like, did you actually change technical things in your serve?
CAMILA GIORGI: No.  Actually, I -- yes, technically, but even more fluidity, sure.  Less mechanic, you know.
Q. Is that because you have a new coach, or...
CAMILA GIORGI: No, no, no.  It's always the same.  It's my dad.  We been working all life together.  No, I didn't change anything.  I just change -- we change the way to approach the serve.  This is the only thing we did with my dad.
Q. Is your dad here?  In Melbourne?
CAMILA GIORGI: No, he couldn't come, but he gonna be Melbourne, for sure, yeah.
Q. How important has this week kind of been for you to get the qualifying matches in, and then also, now, two very good wins over Grand Slam champions this week and you get a chance against Radwanska?  Are you feeling much more confident now than maybe a week ago?
CAMILA GIORGI: Yeah, for sure.  But for be like this, you need to win some matches.  And after, I can play my game and be more focused a bit of the important points.  More than before.
You just come here to, I mean, to play match by match and trying to improve every match the things -- I don't know how to say.  Try to mistake, you know, so you try to make less mistakes and work in other things.
Q. Are you surprised by how well you're playing, you know, so early in the season, especially this week?  Or did you feel like this level was there, you know, when you landed in Australia?
CAMILA GIORGI: No, no.  Actually, I think -- last year, too, I was playing good.  But I always had -- I didn't have chance to play.  So this was my big issue, can say.
But, no, I think just because I won the first matches, because I didn't play for three months, so the rhythm, to get the rhythm back of the matches, official matches is not easy.
Q. You're going to go into Melbourne as one of the more dangerous unseeded players.  You're not playing like a No. 100, I don't think.  How does that feel?
CAMILA GIORGI: No.  I repeat:  I just try to play as much matches as I can this year and get this level more consistent.  That's all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT