SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 8, 2018
Camila Giorgi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GIORGI/S. Stephens   
6-3, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That was a great performance today.  How are you feeling going into this season and what do you think was working particularly well for you today?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I think today was consistent part of the game.  I start a little bit maybe doing some faults in general, but then I play my game and was good after.   
 Q.  So you have won four matches in a row now after coming through qualifying.  What are you kind of overall happy with with what's going on in your game?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I think it's very important now starting this season.  I was like three months without playing tennis, so is good to be back and play a little bit more matches to get ready for the rest of the year.   
 Q.  What was your preparation for this year?  Where did you train?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I train in Italy, my home, and felt so very good.  I did six weeks of preparation.  It was great.  Very good.   
 Q.  What about the weather?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yeah, it's completely different (smiling).  I was playing indoor, and here it's so hot.  But is nice.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about last year and just in terms of how difficult of a season it was and why you think it was just kind of getting the wins and getting the momentum was maybe a little bit difficult last year and how...  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yeah, it was very difficult, because I was playing very good but I had many, many injuries that I couldn't play.  I mean, I stopped playing after US Open, for example.  I was injured.  And from there, I finish my year.   
I was withdrawing every tournament and hoping that I was better, but not.  But now I'm good.  I'm in shape, so this is the more important.   
 Q.  What were some of the injuries that you struggled with?  
CAMILA GIORGI: It was elbow, the elbow.   
 Q.  Elbow on the right?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yes, on right.  So I couldn't play.   
 Q.  How much therapy or kind of rehab, physio work did you have to do?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I did like rehab, rehabilitation with many -- I don't know how you say in English, but with many kind of...   
 Q.  Specialists?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yes, exactly, specialists, massage, and then doing a little bit of everything.   
 Q.  So you're 100% fit coming into this season?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yes, yes.   
 Q.  That must feel much better?  
CAMILA GIORGI: Yes, of course.  Yeah, hoping there is no stop this year (smiling).   
 Q.  So next up is either I think Petra or Lucic.  Will you watch much of that today?  And what do you think of either of them?  
CAMILA GIORGI: I think the more importance is to be in shape for next match.  I mean, I focus on my game like always.  I hope to play like today and be consistent.  That's all.   
 Q.  Were you aware of Sloane's struggles since the US Open?  She hasn't won a match since the US Open when she won in September.  Were you thinking about that coming in to today?  
CAMILA GIORGI: No, I didn't know.  I didn't know about that.  But I was not playing for three months, so I think it's almost -- I don't know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT