NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SENATORS v SABRES
May 14, 2007
Lindy Ruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Lindy, Bryan Murray was talking this morning a little bit about how teams oftentimes they will fail a few times before they break through.  Based on that experience, do you agree with that notion, you need to lose a couple times before you actually know how to win? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  Well, I think he's probably referring to their playoff losses and their disappointments and, you know, he mentioned that they've learned a lot from some of their playoff losses and tried to move forward.  I think you do have to learn. 

 Q.  Lindy, talk about what you guys need to do to turn around the power play, 0-12 for the first few games. 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  The power play did a real good job last game.  Had good zone time.  It generated some real good chances.  It looked like a power play.  We may have had one, two that Ottawa did a real good job against, but we had some situations.  We had one called back.  We had some great opportunities on it.  You know, we're just going to have to execute.  We get the opportunity, it's to make sure we finish them. 

 Q.  Coach, how did Henrik do - how does he feel? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  Henrik will be a game-time decision. 

 Q.  How did he feel today? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  Henrik will be a game-time decision. 

 Q.  Are you contemplating any other lineup changes, or is that game time as well? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  I'm not going to talk about my lineup. 

 Q.  Did you hear anything from the League about the hit?  I know that were you thinking it should be suspendible.  Have you heard anything from them? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  No, I haven't heard anything from the League, no. 

 Q.  Lindy, what was your changes of the lines at the end of practice there? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  Just reiterated how well the chances we got and some of the things we did, just trying to reinforce some of the puck pressure we got throughout the game and some little areas that I think we can continue to do well against them. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT