NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SENATORS v SABRES
May 12, 2007
Lindy Ruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Describe the mood for this game, rollercoaster and knowing what you were faced with here going to Ottawa? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  Disappointed obviously with the loss.  I know we played a real sound game. 

 Q.  Is this a situation where when Danny scores that goal, can you take us through the emotions there?  I know maybe it's hard, given what happened with the final result, but when he scores that goal, is the mood that "We're going to do it again, this is going accord to go script"? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  Obviously we're upbeat and positive.  In the last minute we were going to tie it up, and I thought the guys worked hard on the retrieval and got a puck to the net and got a little bit of a bounce and end up tying the game up.  It was a hard-fought game.  They got handed another five-on-three, which same as the previous game on tough calls, which, you know, I'm disappointed with that. 

 Q.  Can you buy the explanation they gave on Vanek's, on the non-goal? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  You know, I'm just going to stay with what I said in the last series.  You hope to get it right.  That's a tough call.  It's a tough call.  You know, I thought the guys remained focused and went back to work after that, but that's a tough call. 

 Q.  You've been a quality road team throughout the regular season, can you draw from that going into obviously these two games in Ottawa? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  Well, you know, we mentioned that right after the game.  We're one of the best road teams in the league.  So, you know, I thought there was a lot of things to like about the game.  You don't like losing.  You get a tough bounce that just found a way of going in.  But I thought for the most part we cleaned up our game and we played - like I said, I thought all the lines played well for us and got real good effort out of almost everybody. 

 Q.  Again, special teams, Lindy, it's the penalty kill plus the power play, how much can you work on those?  Is there more work you can do? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  You know what, you look at the shot that beat Ryan, it's a shot you hope that Ryan makes the save there, was - it was from out of the middle of the ice and, you know, it just fooled him a little bit.  The five-on-three goal, I mean, it's five-on-three is tough to defend.  It was a pass that went through Tallinder and end up on Redden's stick for a perfect one timer.  Give us a couple five-on-threes. 

 Q.  Is Tallinder okay?  And obviously he came back, but your thoughts on that play? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  I thought it was definitely a check from behind.  There's no doubt in my mind there, and we'll see how he is tomorrow.  He came back and attempted to play. 

 Q.  Did the officiating - I know it's a touchy subject, but did it leave you kind of scratching your head at some point, wondering what are they calling and what they're not calling because it seems as though the standard was off tonight? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  I just think that we've had back-to-back games where we've had tough calls to leave us five-on-three when the same situations have been there for us to be, you know, maybe up five-on-three.  Those are tough calls.  Zubrus lifting up a guy's stick and Brian Campbell basically giving the guy a nudge.  Those are tough calls. 
 I said this morning you have tough calls against you.  You get tough calls, but you hope you get - we're going to hope to get some calls go our way. 

 Q.  I know you had Chris throughout for that last face-off, which there's no other guy you want.  Do you get the sinking feeling you just won one in the same spot and you've got the icing and he's got to do it again? 
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  You put your best face-off guy and trust it.  That's all you do.  You look at the shot.  It looked like it bounced a couple time and found a hole.  You know, those are tough breaks, too.  Thanks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT