NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SABRES v HURRICANES
May 22, 2006
Lindy Ruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Close score but looked like -- (inaudible)   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  I won't consider that a narrow defeat by any means.   
  Q.  They took away your transition game, seemed like the odd-man breaks that we have seen throughout the playoffs they were utterly determined to take away tonight.   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  Yeah, I think that there was little things inside the game, I thought they won some battles on the walls.  They got the pucks more than we did.  Their lines were better than our lines, that's just the bottom line.   
 I think first 40 minutes is probably the worst hockey we played in the playoffs from a turnover standpoint, from a transition standpoint, and you know, our passing at times was very erratic.  We started to gamble and we gave them some situations, but we played a very disjointed 40 minutes.   
  Q.  Looked like maybe you didn't have your legs until the third period.  Third period looked like you had them.  Would you agree the first --   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  I don't think we started the game pretty well.   
  Q.  Yeah.   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  That's laying an excuse out there.  I just didn't think we had lines that played well tonight.  We could have won some battles.  We didn't win some.  We didn't get some pucks out, that led to great opportunities.   
 We made some stupid plays, you look at tying the game and giving them a breakaway 10 seconds left in the first period.  We just had guys, their heads weren't on their shoulders tonight.   
  Q.  Would you agree the same with the penalty kill, the tip-in--   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  We weren't -- if you look at it we weren't very good in a lot of areas.  Penalty kill was one of them.  We got running around a little bit and allowed some shots we didn't want to allow, but we had some personnel changes; seemed like we were a little out of sync.   
  Q.  Doug didn't play a lot, where was his game tonight?   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  I think he gave us what we needed.  I didn't think the other guys handled the ice time as well as I thought they were going to.  The top four, I thought at times struggled and that probably hurt our game more than anything.   
  Q.  Even saying all that, though, Wesley's diving there, you guys looked like you had a chance to get a goal, get within one, get some momentum, Wesley's play, how big was that to keep the momentum on their side?   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  It would close the gap right off the bat.  It was a tremendous play to keep that out on his part.   
  Q.  Can you at least take out of these games you didn't play your best game but you got one out of here?   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  We're going back into our building. We played well there.  I want to see if they are going to show up in our building the way they showed up tonight.   
  Q.  I take it you weren't surprised.  They played pretty emotional.  You had said before the series that they were the kind of team that when they were up against some adversity, they showed a lot, this was a must-win for them.   
 COACH LINDY RUFF:  That was to be expected.  I didn't expect any less.  I think it's our turn to answer the bell back in our building.  Thanks.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT