NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 19, 1999
Lindy Ruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Are you protesting this game something?
 
 LINDY RUFF: We are going to try to do whatever we can. 
 
Q. We saw the replay. What are you trying to do at this point?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Did you see the replay? 
 
Q. Yes what are you personally asking to be done at this point?
 
 LINDY RUFF: We want to protest really. I mean, that is the worse nightmare right there
man in the crease, puck is definitely out of the crease, you can't explain that one to me.
You can't they have tried -- you cannot explain that one to me. 
 
Q. Who tried explaining?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Supervisors tried to say it was a good goal. 
 
Q. Do you know, is there a mechanism in place that you can use now?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Do you think there is a mechanism this place? No. I don't think there is.
You can protest; you can do whatever. I mean, it's got to be -- that was the worst
nightmare right there. They knew that they ran the risk of overtime goal meaning a series
-- Stanley Cup pandemonium sets in and they can't go back to review it. That is my
opinion. 
 
Q. Is it ironic for two years now that rule has gone against you. You said it would
even up and it isn't --
 
 LINDY RUFF: Obviously it didn't even out. All I wanted was a review. I mean, everybody
saw it. Once you have got 200 people on the ice, no, they are not going to review it. 
 
Q. On what basis did they try to explain to you that it was a good goal?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Brett Hull had control of it and he was -- he had it under control in the
crease and he stick handled to his forehand and shot it in. Well, that wasn't the case. It
went off Dominik's glove, Holzinger's skate, went outside the crease, his foot is in the
crease when he scored the goal. 
 
Q. You can't take back the Stanley Cup?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Not taking anything away. I mean, if they wanted to slow down the
procedure, they would have reviewed it. They would have held things up and reviewed it;
somebody would have called from upstairs said, listen, this is not a goal. I mean, we have
gone through the procedure throughout the year. We have gone through it in the Playoffs. I
mean, the rule is in place. It is still in place. They are talking about changing it. All
I want is a review. I want a review. I want it reviewed. 
 
Q. The celebration, do you think that is why they didn't review it; do you think it all
happened so quickly and the refs were overwhelmed; couldn't take that opportunity that
everybody is --
 
 LINDY RUFF: I think that was the worst case scenario. Obviously an overtime game where
pandemonium sets in and they just can't take it back. 
 
Q. Did they make a motion, any kind of motion as if to talk about it or review it or
anything?
 
 LINDY RUFF: They said it was a good goal. In terms -- they said it was a good goal. 
 
Q. You went into the dressing room after the game, reviewed it and then you went
storming back out. Who were you going after?
 
 LINDY RUFF: I wanted Bettman to answer the question, why is that not reviewed. And
really -- he just turned his back on me. He almost looked to me like he knew this might be
a tainted goal and there was no answer for it. I just wanted an explanation, just tell me,
listen, it is a good goal; not a good goal. There was no answer. No review. There was no
answer. 
 
Q. Amongst all that now, what in the world do you say to your team to your players?
 
 LINDY RUFF: I said yesterday we would play our best game, best game of the series, and
they gave it everything they had. I thought we outplayed them, you know, we played hard.
It wasn't -- at the end it wasn't X's and O's that won or lost the game. We hit a post; we
hit a cross bar. We couldn't buy the bounce, but I was extremely proud of the season and
the Playoffs the players had. There is no shame and no blame. We got this far together and
we lost together. 
 
Q. Does Dallas know that you want this reviewed?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Personally I don't think they care right now. They just think it is spilled
milk right now. 
 
Q. The goal is not legitimate obviously when you look at it on the replay. Clearly all
year it would have been called back. Do you feel like you didn't lose? Do you feel like
this thing should still has been going on?
 
 LINDY RUFF: I feel as coach I have got to do everything for my team including making
sure that gets reviewed, making sure that the supervisors got to review it. They got to
call down. That is why I went back out on the ice because -- everybody knows it is 24
years since the last time we had been to this spot. As hard as my players battled tonight,
I felt I had to do everything possible from going to supervisor to going to Bettman to
just try to get an answer because there was something within reach and they just they
ripped the piece of it out. It was -- I don't even want to go down there anymore. 
 
Q. How does it feel two straight years to be knocked out of the Playoffs in that same
end zone, same sort of play, Joey Juneau last year that same side of the net and Hasek
(inaudible) --
 
 LINDY RUFF: I think you can't explain the feeling. It is disbelief really. I thought
the way the game was going that we would get the bounce, that sooner or later, you know,
one would go in for us. But, you know, strange, you make one mistake or you get one bounce
somewhere and it can go the other way. Obviously they got a couple of breaks. We had a
post and a cross bar, could have ended earlier. There wasn't going to be a lot of chances
even in the overtimes we played. 
 
Q. You have seen the goal. Do you know what happened on the goal that set the whole
play up? 
 
 LINDY RUFF: No. I watched the overhead replay. I watched the play in regular speed just
frame-by-frame and I didn't watch the whole play. 
 
Q. There was a lot of talk about Dominik's performance coming into this series, how
much it meant to his standing as perhaps one of greatest that has played his position. How
do you feel his reputation comes out; you can't ask anymore of your goaltender?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Dominik had really a -- for battling through injury and I thought he had a
fabulous Playoff for us. He was a pillar of strength a lot of times when we scrambled
around. He made a lot of key saves. He would probably like to have the first goal back,
but you know, that happens to even the best goaltenders. You know, his performance in the
Playoffs was fabulous. 
 
Q. Lindy, was Mike Peca hurting? He looked -- is there an injury that he was covering
up or no?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Not really. We have got a lot of players that were hurting. Michael is --
he has got some bumps and bruises but he is not hurting. He is not hurting anymore or any
worse -- I thought -- you know, as a group there are some guys probably taking needles on
both sides to block pain and whatever else. As far as I know, Michael doesn't have --
nothing he was taking medication for. He played a fabulous game for us tonight. Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT