NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 17, 1999
Lindy Ruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Lindy, your dad has been with you for the series. What does that mean to you to have
your dad with you?
 
 LINDY RUFF: He missed the first couple of games, but he got there for the home games
and I think it is great. It is an opportunity of a lifetime for both of us and it is great
to enjoy this time of year with him, spend a lot of time as a little kid hauling me from
rink to rink, along with my three other brothers. Finally gets to reap a little bit of the
benefits 30 years later. 
 
Q. (inaudible)
 
 LINDY RUFF: We are not going shopping, no. 
 
Q. How close do you think you guys came to losing Dixon Ward through expansion last
year and what kind of effect would that have had maybe if you had lost him?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Well, obviously we thought there would be a chance he would be taken. It is
going to happen again this year. Dixon has been good player for us and we are going to
lose another good player. We didn't want to lose Bob Boughner to tell you the truth. He
was kind of the heart and soul in the back end for us, but obviously with young players
coming, you have got to expose guys that you think in a year or two may not be here
anymore, guys that are going to become unrestricted free agents, whatever. Dixon was an
important part of our Playoff picture last year and regular season this year and has been
an important player in the Playoffs again for thus year. 
 
Q. You had a lot of success with Peca on the Nieuwendyk line in Game 4. If Hull comes
back tonight -- I don't know what the situation is there with Modano -- does that change
your thinking; would you try at least to get the matchup with Curtis Brown there or would
you maybe want to switch back?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Well, the matchup we got at home with Modano and Lehtinen, that line there
was Primeau, Rasmussen and Cunneyworth who played against the most and can do a pretty
good job..... I think the matchups in game -- I don't think it would have mattered who we
matched up with who, we just didn't have a very good game in Game 3. So we are not going
to get all our matchups tonight. We will get one and if we change on the fly to get Peca
against Nieuwendyk, obviously other lines are going to have to play against whoever. You
can't just change on the fly or we will spend too much time in our own end. But I think
every line can be reliable. Primeau really played well at center for us in Game 4. Curtis
Brown has been one of our better two-way centerman all year, and Brian Holzinger is very
capable of playing against anybody. So we need a huge effort out of all four centermen
tonight regardless of who they are out there against. 
 
Q. Is one of the sub-plots here the expansion draft and guys playing for jobs -- may
not be talking about it, but they must be aware of it that this is their last couple of
games together?
 
 LINDY RUFF: I don't think it has been an issue at all. I haven't heard anybody talking
about expansion in the room. I know it is going to come upon us pretty quick. I think it
is nine days or eight days away really. But I think the players understand it is more jobs
for the players. The League expanding is going to extend the careers of a lot of players.
Although you are losing a teammate, players look at it that another 30 jobs have been
created and two years from now it will be 60 jobs; instead of players playing four, five
years they will probably stretch it to eight or nine. I think in that sense the players
are glad for expansion. 
 
Q. Everyone talks about the Stars' depth; their fourth line is a quality line, but how
about the line of Primeau, Rasmussen and Cunneyworth that was out there the other night;
can you talk about them and how well they played?
 
 LINDY RUFF: They played extremely well for us. I don't think you can call them a fourth
line the way they played the other night. Really almost played as a number two line, the
Peca line playing against Modano. I think that was a pretty big task for them. You got
Erik, first year player, and you got Cunneyworth played 17 or 18 years, and Wayne has been
a good player for us really throughout the last two Playoffs, kind have had a so-so
regular season but stepped up his play in both Playoffs since I have been here. So that
line is going to play a big role for us. We mentioned earlier we are going to have to play
two or three of our lines against different lines tonight so we will get a lot of the
matchups, but if that line can help create and help shut down it is going to be a big plus
for us. 
 
Q. With the speed of Holzinger and Sanderson did you notice in Game 4 Dallas starting
to back off a little bit when those guys got rolling; did you notice they were getting a
little more careful with their speed --
 
 LINDY RUFF: I think one thing they have to do is respect it. One thing you can do with
counterspeed is make sure you got tight gaps. I think we caught them in transition a
couple of times. If you are caught halfway you got no choice with you to back in and I
felt at times that happened. But very seldom you have got a lot of ice against them. In
the times they did their defense is smart enough to back off and keep them wide. 
 
Q. Those two are arguably the most physical of the series. Do you expect the same thing
tonight and how have you talked to the guys about, like you said, going into Game 4; not
running around too much and looking for hits and tiring them out?
 
 LINDY RUFF: It is best of 3 right now and now we are into the heart of the series where
we have got emotions going both ways. There are a few veteran matches out there. There has
been players that have built up little rivalries with other players; there is all the
little games inside the game now. I think Game 4 we hit a lot better than we did in Game 3
but hitting has to come under control where we don't just run in there and three guys are
trying to hit the same person; we stay in control; take the hits when they are there and
make sure we finish all our checks when available. 
 
Q. Now that you have passed the halfway point of this series is this what you expected
coming into the Finals, media-wise, pressure-wise, is it better; worse; exactly what you
that it would be?
 
 LINDY RUFF: I think it is really exactly what we thought. We all said from Day-1 it is
going to be a long hard series; after four games nobody is ahead here. It has mostly been
a roller coaster ride. You can see how high our team was before Game 3 and how
disappointed after Game 3 and then we pick it right back up again for Game 4. Now
everything is even again. We were up; we were down. I think one thing we have done is kept
the emotions in check, where it really hasn't fazed us too much. Game 4 was a huge test
for our team because of the way we played in Game 3. I thought we responded well; we
stayed levelheaded about it. Even though we won, we knew we hadn't accomplished anything.
All we had done was even the series up and give us a chance to take the lead in Game 5. 
 
Q. Reading all this stuff about Game 4; Hasek gets a lot of credit as he always does
when you guys win - how do you handle that as a coach with the other players; do you ever
worry -- obviously he is a huge part of your success, but do you ever think the other guys
get trampled in the rush to talk about him?
 
 LINDY RUFF: No, I think there was a time when it was -- all the talk was Dominik, but
even throughout this Playoff, until this series, all was mentioned Dominik has been good;
he doesn't have to be unbelievable for us to win. We won the Toronto series because we are
a very good team. We didn't rely on goaltending; two games we were without Dominik. In the
Boston series, once again, we had some absolutely dominating periods where we outshot the
opposition by a wide margin and controlled play and we were the better team. I think the
game that set the Playoff straight for us was Game 1 against Ottawa where he played
unbelievable and won us a game and got us in the right direction and that is what your key
players have to do. After that, the players got down and really played well in front of
him. I think he would be first to admit that it has been a total team effort. There has
been a lot of players that get recognition through this stretch and they realize when a
two-time MVP makes those saves, he is going to get a lot of recognition for it. We still
know that he is the backbone of our team in the same sense. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT