NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 15, 1999
Lindy Ruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How much of that was about technical and how much was it pure emotion?

LINDY RUFF: I thought most of the game was passion and emotion. I thought we had a game
where we came out charging of the gates hitting-wise, emotion-wise, we flooded in, we had
a couple of hits, I think, in the second period and that really started to dictate play
and we let it all hang out. We had our "D" involved. It was a good hockey game.

Q. You only had a couple of shots in the last period. I know you really didn't want to
go in the defensive shell. But it kind of looked like that at that time.

LINDY RUFF: Well, I think we did, we didn't give him a lot of quality chances. We gave
them outside shots and they came on hard. You got to give them credit. There was times we
could have shot the puck from the outside; we didn't shoot it; we just chose to get it
deep. But, really, in the third period we gave them three or four chances maybe and mainly
perimeter and I think nerves got the best of us. But I think in the first 40 minutes, the
emotion and passion was what won us the hockey game.

Q. You had be to really pleased of the reemergence of your physical game tonight?

LINDY RUFF: Well, I thought rolling four lines and trying keep the shift short after
two periods, I think the forward with the most ice time had nine or ten minutes. That is
not typical with our hockey team. We tried to keep it short. We wanted everybody to
finish. We wanted to make sure that every line got going and we didn't worry a lot about
the matchups. We made sure we had Peca on Nieuwendyk obviously. After that Primeau or
Brown on Modano and then we just let the other guys go.

Q. Talk about Cunneyworth's contribution tonight. What did you think of his play and
just that move you made; just talk about the whole situation.

LINDY RUFF: That line played extremely well for us Primeau, Cunneyworth and Rasmussen.
Cunneyworth and Rasmussen played together for the first three months down in Rochester. He
has kind of a calming influence on Erik. They kind of know each other, played off each
other, but Randy skated extremely well; positionally he was good. He had a lot of fire. I
thought he was a great addition for the game.

Q. Maybe the first thousand times Sanderson takes a slapshot from there -- puts it in
the goalie's pads. Did that move surprise you?

LINDY RUFF: We told him the -- we said you got to drop a shoulder on a deke. I said you
finally listened. He said, well, the puck wasn't in the right place to shoot.

Q. Could you tell us what Dixon Ward did better tonight than the first three games?

LINDY RUFF: Well, I think the one thing that line did was -- obviously we didn't over
use him. I think it got to a point where maybe we overused him a little bit. They respect
-- kept their shifts short first period, four and a half minutes, but they cycled it well.
Every guy was dogging the puck. We tried to generate shots off that. It hasn't been too
often in the four games that we have been able to set that cycle game, get our defense
involved. That really what got that line got going for us and Varada, he was a bull down
low, along with finishing checks going the other way.

Q. If this was mostly about passion, what did it mean for Dominik to publicly say: I
will be there for you guys and, two, to go after a guy like Hatcher?

LINDY RUFF: Well, he said it all really. He said -- what he said was, bring it on. I
kind of echoed the sentiments. If we are going to play and hope to win a Game 1-0 sitting
back, we got to get "D" involved. They are a tough team to create chances
against. Dominik said, listen, go for it. If it's break-a-ways or 2-on-1s, you are going
to throw on him; I am up to the challenge. And if this team thinks they are going to be
physical, I am going to get involved too. I think emotionally he was the leader of the
game for us. He set the tone by his statements yesterday.

Q. Would you rather not take on their biggest player?

LINDY RUFF: Well, I think Dominik got a black belt or something, so he will be all
right.

Q. Was it tough not to retaliate? What happened at the end of the second period and
since it was at the end, was it easier to let it go?

LINDY RUFF: Well, you can't -- we can't retaliate and get in an odd numbered situation.
Their powerplay is dangerous. Obviously it could break through at any time. If you want to
retaliate now, it could cost you. We have got to play smart. If we have got a chance get
somebody with open ice and even things up; that is our way of retaliating, or getting
somebody down low, but to respond to somebody, running over somebody right now, that is
what they are looking for. So we are not going to play into their hands.

Q. You talked about Primeau and Brown covering Modano. Seemed like Primeau's line was
on him more than Brown's. Seemed like they did a great job. Could you expound on how
Primeau's line was able to hold down the Modano line?

LINDY RUFF: I think the one thing that Randy, Wayne and Erik brought was some size and
speed. Erik has great speed. Primeau has got great speed. For the most part they were
against him. They tried to play physical. Erik has been our leading hitter throughout the
Playoffs. We wanted to make sure we got some big bodies out there. Modano is a big man
that can fly and we tried to crowd things through the neutral zone and then when we had a
chance, we tried to finish him. The line went out and played well against him. We tried to
keep that way most of the night.

Q. How important was it for you get the puck on the Nieuwendyk line and how successful
did you think it was (inaudible) --

LINDY RUFF: We kept the Nieuwendyk line at bay. And Joe has been awfully dangerous. I
thought he still played pretty well tonight but we kept him off the score sheet and in the
first three series when the Peca line scores, playing against other top lines, we don't
lose very often. Dixon took advantage of a turnover, scored the goal. They had several
other good chances to score, so it was big for us to shut them down. It was equally as big
for them to score to get the second goal.

Q. There was perhaps a tendency for your team to maybe be satisfied for what they
accomplish so far. They got the doors blown off this Game 3. Did you wonder how they would
react to this?

LINDY RUFF: I didn't wonder. I knew we would respond. What I saw on the tape is
something I really hadn't seen throughout the whole Playoffs for whatever reason, whether
it was emotion, all the hype that was going around, the first home game, we didn't have
it. I said we got beaten every aspect of the game and that wasn't going to happen again. I
still think we are fairly evenly matched. Dallas is obviously a little better team than
us, but if we play like a team I still think we can beat them.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT