NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 10, 1999
Lindy Ruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Lindy, Dallas seems to be saying that the hits on Dominik were more a by-product,
rather, of him just wandering around. Do you see anymore intent there since it happened so
early in the game and so often?
 
 LINDY RUFF: I think it is obviously intent. Skrudland's only the hit of the game. Just
happened to be our goaltender; that is the only guy he can track down. 
 
Q. When he killed off the 5-on-3 and Hasek made the big saves were you thinking for a
moment there maybe this game would have turned out differently than it did?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Yeah, Dominik made four or five tremendous saves on that 5-on-3. We knew
that they would be looking to get it to Hull for the one-timer and just -- you get down
two men; not a lot you can do about it. We were hoping maybe defensemen could block a
couple of them, but you know, we thought that might be enough to get us. But, you know,
Hull got an opportunity; one of our players screened; Dominik actually came out from
behind the net, Ward lost coverage on his man and Hull just ripped one. 
 
Q. Right before the empty net goal it appeared as though the scrum in front, that the
net was knocked off and Kerry Fraser looked down on it and didn't call anything. Did you
see that?
 
 LINDY RUFF: We didn't see that. So doesn't surprise me it the didn't get called though. 
 
Q. Hitchcock said after the game that when a goaltender goes far from his crease they
are going to treat him like he is a defensemen. Is there a way that your team can combat
that?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Well, if you are going to treat players like the goaltenders like
defensemen that means when Belfour is behind the net you just run him over, I guess. But
the rules say you are not allowed to. We got the calls. You can't treat him like a
defenseman, the rules say you don't treat him like a defenseman. You got to try to contain
him, but the League is trying to protect the best players in the game, he happens to be
one of them. 
 
Q. Hull's goal -- obviously they brought him in there to score goals like that. Is that
a case that you have to expect that a guy like Hull with his shot open like that is --
 
 LINDY RUFF: Where he put it was unstoppable, really. I think Dominik might have had a
chance, but I think it was a defenseman for Peca or somebody kind of slid in front of him
just before the shot and he didn't have a hope, he didn't see it. I think if he sees it,
he doesn't go down. But I think when our player slid in front of him he went down; take
the low part away, just a perfect shot. 
 
Q. Ken Hitchcock says he expects every game in this series to be very similar to this
one in Game 1; that all the games will be decided probably in the last ten minutes. Do you
see that is the way the series is going?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Well, obviously the teams are very close. I love the way our hockey club
played the first two periods, hitting-wise, special-teams-wise, the way we played in our
own end. We didn't really let them test Dominik. Obviously in the third period you get
pummeled with a few penalties 5-on-3 and you know you are going to get ten or fifteen
shots against you in those circumstances. But our team battled hard. They battled to the
bitter end. We are going to do more of the same when we get back to our building. 
 
Q. The third period the shots in the third were 19 to 4. Did you feel like your guys
were reeling or did you feel that was a product of powerplays?
 
 LINDY RUFF: A product of powerplays. You know, our team was ready to roll, we had four
lines going, you get the powerplays against you, got us on our heals a little momentum for
them. They teed up 6 or 7 shots in the 5-on-3. They just kind of rolled after that. 
 
Q. That was obviously one of the things you wanted to avoid from Game 1, the penalties.
You were asked about this after Game 1. Is it some partly officiating or is it your team
being undisciplined and how do you avoid the undisciplined penalties?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Our team showed a lot of discipline tonight. I wasn't disappointed with our
discipline at all. Our discipline was great for two periods our discipline was
unbelievable. I don't think it changed in the third. You can't do a lot about marginal
calls. If you get them, they got to go both ways. I can't criticize any of my players or
the penalties they took. 
 
Q. You didn't want to be satisfied with a split. Are you dissatisfied now?
 
 LINDY RUFF: I am not dissatisfied with our effort at all. I thought our effort was
great. I thought to give up the number of shots we gave up in the first and after two
periods, we were battling hard and we knew it wasn't going to be easy, but we still
realize this is going to be a long series. Nobody said it was going to be a 4, 5 game
series. So we are disaappointed we thought we had an opportunity and an opportunity got
away from us late. 
 
Q. If they come out Game 3 and put the hits on Dominik like they did, as you said, with
obvious intent, what can you do? What do you plan on doing?
 
 LINDY RUFF: Well, I mean, obviously the officials saw it; they are going to call it --
Modano slew-footed him first of all. You are not even allowed to do that to a defenseman.
If they want to treat him like a defenseman - it was definitely a cheap shot by Modano. He
went through the crease and slew-footed Hasek. It is just a cheap shot. So you know, there
is ways to combat it. I don't even want to talk about it. 
 
Q. Ken Hitchcock talked about how the pressure is probably greater playing at home. Do
you guys feel like there is more pressure on now that you are going back to home or do you
feel a split takes pressure off?
 
 LINDY RUFF: I think there is pressure every game. There was pressure going into
tonight's game. Dallas obviously felt the pressure. There is going to be a no runnaway
here. It is going to be one-goal games. Games are going to be won late. They are going to
be dictated a lot by special teams. It is going to be a roller coaster ride. At home we
have got a lot of distractions family relatives, friends, we got to keep our team focused.
But they want to come into our building and hopefully try to get a split, we haven't lost
in our building yet. I think that is a big plus for us. We have been extremely focused and
played very well there. So we are looking for more of the same. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT