NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 8, 1999
Lindy Ruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. One of the great coaching tools is when you get outplayed quite a bit and you are
only down by one goal - did you play that card after two periods in your room?

COACH RUFF: Well, I think it is pretty easy to get out-played. We took a lot of
penalties. We were shorthanded. I don't know what the count was, 9 or 10 by the end, but I
think you saw in the third period when we stayed out of box we started to take the game
away. I think we got stronger. Nine-day layoff probably affected us, but we got our legs
underneath us and came around.

Q. Did your penalty kill keep you in the game tonight?

COACH RUFF: Our penalty killing has been very good throughout the Playoffs. I don't
think you get this far without having good special teams. Dallas is the same way. Their
powerplay is dangerous and they are a tough team to get powerplay goals against.

Q. Can you describe how you saw the winning goal?

COACH RUFF: Well, Woolley just joined late, was wide open, nobody picked him up and
just one-timed it, I believe it found the five-wall.

Q. Can you compare this performance by Hasek with another one?

COACH RUFF: No, he has played -- I could probably list two years, probably 20 or 30
like this, but when we needed him early in the game and especially when we were killing
powerplays, he made some saves that gave us the chance to get back in the game and gave us
a chance to win. It was just a great performance.

Q. How is Dominik? He looked to be favoring, like he might have been hurt coming off
the ice there after he made that flurry of saves right after the goal....

COACH RUFF: I haven't had a conversation with him yet so I can't even comment on that.

Q. What was going through your mind when you were taking that stretch of penalties,
your club, seven in a row, I don't know that you see that very often?

COACH RUFF: That is the conversation I was going to have with the supervisor
afterwards. (laughter). A lot of the penalties were deserved. I thought the play that
bothered me most was the goal that was called away when Varada wasn't even in the crease
and I don't believe he knocked him backwards the way he did. The puck was up in the air.
They came together and the puck went in. That is probably the play that upset me the most.

Q. (inaudible)

COACH RUFF: I think the nine-day layoff and nerves, obviously, we got a young team;
haven't been in this position. I expected a storm in the first five or ten minutes and we
were undisciplined at times, but we found a way to win it. 

Q. How did you account for Jason Woolley's offensive production throughout the Playoffs
coming into the game leading the team in scoring? Is it a surprise to you or something
that he has taken --

COACH RUFF: Well, I think the one thing when your powerplay is going as good as it is,
and he is a big part of that, he gets a lot of points himself and Zhitnik have been kind
of the quarterbacks the whole time they have got pucks through. He has joined a lot of
times. And I think the majority of his points have been powerplay points, but, you know,
it goes along with the special teams when they are going well, a lot of people reap the
benefits and he has one of them.

Q. Did this remind you of the first game, the Ottawa game on the road maybe a slow
start, Dominik kept in long enough --

COACH RUFF: At times a little bit. Penalty-wise it reminded me of Ottawa for sure. But
I thought as the game went on we started to come on and in the third period for the
longest period of time I think we only gave him one shot that was from outside the blue
line, so our legs got underneath us, and I don't think you can simulate the intensity that
came in the first five minutes in practice although I thought conditioning later on paid
off for us.

Q. Going into the third period did you make any adjustments as far as trying to put
more pressure on the net?

COACH RUFF: No, we realize as a team that they are a extremely tough team to generate
chances against. You saw what they did against Colorado the last two games. We figured we
would probably get nine or ten chances going into the game and we may have got a few more
by the end of the night. But the point we wanted to make was get it deep; make sure we get
it below the goal line; make sure the defense got to go all the way back. We were sloppy
in the first two periods. In the third we dumped it in every time and got some pursuit
going.

Q. This performance will do a lot for the public perception of your team's chances.
Does it do anything for your team's belief in their ability to come in this building and
win?

COACH RUFF: No, we have a team that believes even before the game. I think the good
thing is we can't get swept now anyways. So we eliminate that in one night. We hope to
maybe sneak another one out of here, but you know, east has been the last three years. We
just won one for the east.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT