CACTUS BOWL: KANSAS STATE VS UCLA
December 23, 2017
Kenny Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KENNY YOUNG: From that aspect, you say, okay, when he does those things, what doesn't he do well?  Does he secure the ball?  Because it's something that you always get nitpicked at, that that's a weakness because a quarterback -- a running back is more, you can trust the running back more with the ball running it.
So with the quarterback, it's they're always -- if you hit them, the ball will come out.  Something will happen.  You just have to find it on film and just attack that.
But I'm confident in my guys on the defensive side of the ball that we're going to do our job, and they were going to win.  We've handled running quarterbacks over our years in college football.  So for us it's just another challenge and another opportunity to execute.
Q. How does it feel to be here?
KENNY YOUNG: It feels good.
Q. And so California weather, Arizona weather -- did you grow up in California?
KENNY YOUNG: No, I'm a New Orleans boy.
Q. Does this even feel like Christmas?  There's no snow.
KENNY YOUNG: It doesn't snow in New Orleans either.  I'm away from my family.  I'm away from -- I would guess there's not many presents I see, because we're here in the Cactus Bowl.
But it's just a great opportunity for us to be here away from California.  I get to be away from home.  So I can just focus on football and enjoy bonding time with my guys.
Q. Are you asking for anything for Christmas other than a Cactus Bowl win?
KENNY YOUNG: You hit it right on the head.  Yeah, that's the only thing I want.
Q. The only thing.  No clothes --
KENNY YOUNG: Well, they've given us a bunch of clothes.  So I already have that.  Anything legally left is a win.
Q. Do you have a favorite Christmas carol?
KENNY YOUNG: No, I don't.
Q. You're not a Christmas guy?
KENNY YOUNG: I mean, just like the majority of my life in football is from, what, August -- starting football in August to now, but late December, so I'm all football and school.
Q. Do you have any traditions?  Are you superstitious?
KENNY YOUNG: No, not really.  For me I think the guys, they're the exact same way.  We just want to have fun.  Like last night we spent like three hours at Dave and Busters beating little kids at games.  That was fun to see.
Q. Do you have to stay relaxed?
KENNY YOUNG: You have to stay relaxed.  You have to pull back from football a little bit, get your mind off of football.
Tonight, I don't know what we're doing, I think we're going to a steakhouse.  It's been fun.  Like the ride to Dave and Busters was like 30 minutes and we had a guy on a mic acting like he's a '90s D.J., cracking jokes on all of us.  Even that was fun.  Little things like that I appreciate the most.  I'm a chill person.  I don't really like to do much.  I can't sing.
Q. Do you know how to dance?
KENNY YOUNG: No, I don't know how to dance.  I feel like the bigger you are, the less chance -- see, you've got moves.  You have to teach me, maybe.
Q. Maybe.  Macarena.  This is a big game, obviously.  What do you do before your games?  What's a pregame meal that you have?
KENNY YOUNG: I would have to say spaghetti, grilled chicken, smash, potatoes, sweet potatoes.  No, no mashed sweet potatoes.  Asparagus.  And water with DripDrop in it.
Q. What kind of DripDrop?
KENNY YOUNG: I think it's the berry kind.  And before the game I probably listen to a few music, few artists.  Or I probably just watch concerts, because sometimes I feel like we listen to music so much that you block out everything.  And I like to stay loose.  Chill stuff.
Q. Let's talk a little bit about some of your teammates.  Now who is the biggest momma's boy on this team?
KENNY YOUNG: Biggest momma's boy?  Who is the biggest momma's boy?  I would have to say it is Jacob.  That guy right over there.
Q. Who is the biggest pretty boy?
KENNY YOUNG: Jaelan Phillips.
Q. Who is the strongest on this team?
KENNY YOUNG: The strongest guy on the team?
Q. Bench pressing buddy?
KENNY YOUNG: I would have to say Scotty Quessenberry, our center.
Q. The fastest?
KENNY YOUNG: Me, I'm the fastest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT