AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v ATHLETICS
October 8, 2013
Bob Melvin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Oakland manager, Bob Melvin. 

Q.   Bob, what do you think has been going on with Jed Lowrie the series? 
BOB MELVIN:   He's probably struggling a little bit.   Now you're trying to do too much.   It's not like he's lunging or missing pitches by a foot.   He just hasn't squared anything up like we're used to seeing them, but my feeling is he will. 

Q.   Bob, if Game5 comes to pass, is Bartolo Colon in the‑‑
BOB MELVIN:   I'm not even thinking about Game5 right now.   We gotta get through this one. 

Q.   Can you just overall talk about the situation you guys are in with the chance to eliminate them here today and knowing if you don't, there is still a Game5? 
BOB MELVIN:   Yeah, we really don't look at it past today's game.   Obviously you know where you are as far as the series is situated, but we don't play it any different today. 
If it was 2‑2, if we were down 2‑1, doesn't matter to us.   We're going to go out there and play like this is the last game and I think that's the only way we should look at it. 

Q.   Leyland was just in here talking about how his team had not hit any homers this series and they are a home run team.   Have you been surprised or I guess you're feelings on your pitchers' ability to hold their offense to six runs for three games that they have scored in two innings. 
BOB MELVIN:   Right.   You look at the lineup and whether it's a postseason or whether it's regular season, like when we came here last time, you hope you can hold it off until you leave. 
They are as good of an offensive team as any team in all of baseball and we're lucky to have been able to hold them down in this fashion.   To this point we are hoping that remains.   We are pitching pretty well at this point. 
There is an understanding that they could break out at any minute, and when you have circumstances like that, that our offense has to pick it up and play well, too. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT