AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v ATHLETICS
October 7, 2012
Bob Melvin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by A's manager Bob Melvin.   Questions? 

Q.   Jonny was talking about how it's important not to screw up your swing after seeing a guy like Verlander.   The last time you were here I think your team had one of its better offensive performances the following day after seeing Verlander.   Is that something that you can draw from, that they can draw from, and how?
BOB MELVIN:   I think so.   But more than anything you just want to put it away.   We often talk about here we try to ride the momentum when we win a game or several games in a row and put away a loss.
So he pitched well yesterday.   You move along to the next day.

Q.   In life many people would have you think that things are mind over matter.   In this case with the body clocks is it mind over matter going out here this morning, or is it something else you guys have to prepare to overcome that?
BOB MELVIN:   I think adrenalin plays into it in postseason too.   Anytime you step out on the field in this type of atmosphere, even if you're tired a little bit before, that diminishes.   And I think the fact it was a 6:00 game last night as opposed to a 7:00 game is pretty similar to what you deal with during the season from 7:00 to 1:00, 6:00 to noon.   I don't think it would be an issue.

Q.   Did you wind up changing anything this morning from your usual routine, the team's usual routine?
BOB MELVIN:   We usually hit in the cage, but we gave it optional today.   I think there's five or six guys.   And a lot of times the bench players want to hit on the field.
We had two days off.   We played a game.   We're going to have a day off tomorrow.   That factored in a little bit to let some of the guys hit on the field who wanted to.

Q.   Even though he's not starting the games, how much of a cheerleader is Gomes and how much of a pick‑me‑up is he from the bench?
BOB MELVIN:   He's always instrumental for us, whether it's a resource or whether it's a guy that perpetuates the loose atmosphere that we have.   That never diminishes for him, even after a night game to a day game.
So we hope to get him in a game here at some point in time, and if it's not the case today, hopefully‑‑ potentially we even look to get him to a start.   We don't want him sitting around too long.   He has hit certain right‑handers pretty well, so we're always looking to get him in the game.

Q.   Have you made any decisions yet on Game 3, Game 4 starters?
BOB MELVIN:   We haven't.   But we'll probably announce it tomorrow.   Brett feels good.   I think the better he feels day to day, hour to hour, we'd like to be able to pitch him in 3.   So we still hold that out potentially to be the case.   But I think we're probably more prudent to announce that tomorrow.

Q.   Will today's outcome play into that Game 3 decision?   Is that part of it?
BOB MELVIN:   It's mostly how he feels.   We want to try to get him in the game as soon as we can.   And that's regardless.   So if he feels good enough to go, whether we win, lose, or draw today, we'd like to pitch him sooner than later. 
Probably not going to draw, though, right? 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Bob. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT