NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Donovan Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If you could start out with an opening statement about what you're going to bring to the Jazz.
DONOVAN MITCHELL: I'm still in shock.  You know, this is a great experience.  I've been waiting for this moment for all my life.  Everybody says that, but it's one thing to say it and one thing to kind of live it, and I think that I'm just really blessed to be part of this organization.  I thank Mr. Lindsey, Coach Snyder and the Miller family for trusting me and having faith in me to bring me valuable minutes to this program, and as a playoff contender.  It's a tough decision when you have to pick for a team that is in the playoffs and develop a young guy like myself, and I'm just ready to work and put the work in, and I'm just ready for that first day of practice, that's all.
Q. You mentioned going to a good team, going to a playoff team.  Is that something that you expect?  Usually when you're a top pick, you go to a bad team.  What type of adjustment is that, the fact that you may not play as many minutes early on in your career?
DONOVAN MITCHELL: I'm accustomed to that, being at Louisville, highly touted program, coming in you don't play a lot of minutes as a freshman.  I just want to go in there and work and work as hard as I can and develop.  That's all you can do is work as hard as you can.  Sometimes you may not get the minutes you want, but as long as you put the effort in, everything will fall right into place, and I'm just excited to have this opportunity and this chance.
Q. What was this experience like this past week, particularly tonight?
DONOVAN MITCHELL: So actually I kind of had a different route than everybody.  I got in late two nights ago.  I had a workout, so I just finished my 12th or 13th workout the day before the draft.  I didn't really get to experience much of the media and all that, but this night I was fine really until Markelle got picked, and then that's when everything just kind of like switched.  And then the Jimmy Butler trade, and realizing that trades can happen so quickly and you can end up somewhere quickly.  I got picked by Denver and ended up in Utah.
It's definitely an experience.  It's one of the more nerve-racking experiences of your life, but it's definitely a good type of nerve-racking experience.
Q. Donovan, when in your career, whether high school or college, did you feel like this day was possible?
DONOVAN MITCHELL: I would say about two months ago to be honest with you.  I didn't see myself being here.  Well, not this day, but it came faster than I expected.  Two months ago is when I really realized that I could play at this level and really compete at this level, and I think that's what really kind of has gained my confidence.  I always had confidence, but to play at this level, you need a certain type of confidence that puts you head and shoulders above other people, and I think two months is when it really kind of clicked for me.  Growing up I was a baseball player, so basketball was kind of second tier growing up, and now to be here in this arena where I've played so many times, watched so many games, now to possibly come in here and play as a road trip game is incredible, and I'm loving every minute of this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT