NHL DRAFT
June 27, 2014
Michael Dal Colle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How does it feel to be an Islander? 
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Amazing.   A dream come true.   It's been a pretty busy last week for me and my family, and now that it's over with, it feels great.

Q.   Did the Isles talk to you a lot?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   They talked with me this morning and they met with me, so I kind of had a gut feeling I was going here if I was available, and it worked out great.

Q.   What do you think bringing your skills to this organization?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Well, I think I'll fit in well.   I think they need some depth in the left wing, and I think I'll add to that for sure. 

Q.   What did the Isles talk to you about this morning? 
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Similar stuff, you know, most of the teams, just want to get to know you as a person because I think when they draft you they want to know you off the ice because they see you on the ice, they don't know you as a person, so that was probably the biggest thing.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Well, actually I just got called by John Tavares and Kyle Okposo, so that was pretty cool.   And they just welcomed me to the team, and Josh Bailey just sent me a text, so it's been pretty good.

Q.   Talk about your personal life, your mom is a cancer survivor.   How do you feel about that, that being out there like that?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   It's fine with me.   My whole family is what drives me every day.   I'm definitely a very family‑oriented guy, and everything I do in hockey is for them. 

Q.   What did the Generals mean to your development?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Huge.   They brought me in at 16 and they gave me first‑line minutes as a 16yearold, which doesn't normally happen, doesn't happen too often.   Can't thank DJ Smith and the entire coaching staff, management staff, I can't thank them enough.

Q.   Growing up did you try to pattern yourself after someone in hockey?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Well, my favorite player is Malkin growing up.   Now I don't think anymore, but he was my favorite player, but I think a similar style might be a guy like Jeff Carter.   I like the way he plays.

Q.   From your perspective when you think of the Islanders, what do you think about?   What do they represent to you?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Well, I think they're definitely a very young team, and they're up and coming.   I think I'll add to a good young core group of guys there, and I think I'll fit in well.

Q.   Do you think you're NHL ready or do you think it's going to be a few years until we see you out there?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   I want to play next year.   That's my goal.   If not, obviously one more year of junior, but my goal is I want to play next year, and I think I'm almost there.

Q.   What about physically, strength‑wise?   Do you think you need to grow a little bit?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Well, that's the biggest thing for me I think is the physical side for sure, but I'm doing a lot this off‑season to get there. 

Q.   What did your family say?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   I have like 35 people here sharing this experience with me, so pretty overwhelming.   I only got to talk to my mom, my dad and my sister, but after this it's definitely going to be a good time enjoying this experience with them.

Q.   What's this whole process like leading up to this night and finally getting drafted?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   It's been awesome.   These past couple days have been pretty busy.   Some of the guys got to tour Philly, and that was pretty good.   First time here, I had my first cheese steak, so it's been a good experience.

Q.   Are you friends with Ryan Strome at all?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   No, I don't know Ryan personally, but obviously I played against him my rookie year, and he was probably the best player in the OHL.   He's a great player. 

Q.   Is there anyone in particular on the Islanders' roster you're looking forward to play with?
MICHAEL DAL COLLE:   Well, like I said before, they have a great young core group of guys, so I'll be happy to play alongside anyone. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT