CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 27, 2019
Joey Blount
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you watch their tape, there's so many different receivers that they spread the ball around. How do you pinpoint where it's going and do you just find your man, or what do you do?  
JOEY BLOUNT: Personally I like to look at the rocker steps and see what receiver is good on what type of downs, what type of routes does each receiver run. Every receiver is different in that type of way, there are quick receivers, deep threats, spot receivers, route receivers. So on down and distance it's huge because certain receivers want to get the ball on certain downs, make those type of plays. So for like the last week, week and a half, we've been studying down and distance, route concepts, what receiver is good on what routes, what are they best doing. You've got the tunnel screens and middle reads, under different routes they like to run, outside and inside receivers do a great job of getting the ball -- Trask does a great job of getting the ball around to all the receivers, so that's actually what we're pinpointing, how we can read their concepts and just down and distance and just rely on the play calling for the defense.   
 Q.  They throw a running back in there, too. Does that change what you do a lot?  
JOEY BLOUNT: Kind of both depending on what we do. I know the running back has gotten 35 passes this season. He really has reliable hands it looks like, and it helps that our linebackers are very athletic and mobile, too, so I think the match-up is really good on the outside, whenever safeties or corners are put on, we're going to have a really good match-up.   
 Q.  Kyle Trask has had a great season for Florida. What stands out about how he handle the pressure and how you gets the ball to the wide receivers?  
JOEY BLOUNT: Just his composure in the pocket. He is not very riled up. He stands strong in the pocket. Even when the pocket is closing around him, he'll stand on the reads, wait until the last minute and make the throw. Just his size and strength, honestly. He's a big guy at 6'5", 240 I'm pretty sure, and he just stands out. He has a quarterback body, and I like his arm strength and his decision making. It looks like he's reading the defense before the ball is snapped. For a guy who's never really been starting, I think he's done a really good job coming in for this program.   
 Q.  I feel like Dan Mullen and Bronco Mendenhall both came to a program and needed to turn it around. What stands out about Dan Mullen's turnaround for you?  
JOEY BLOUNT: I mean, I really don't know much about their culture behind their program, but like you're saying, they have a lot of different disciplines. I know you kind of have to clean out the waters. He had to kind of just separate the good and the bad and make more of the good over the bad and kind of what you want your program to be like, and that's how it was at UVA. Coach Mendenhall came in and the first thing he did was really overflow with the good and the discipline and just to show the players that he's not messing around. I feel like Dan Mullen has done the same thing. So the culture at Florida has changed just like UVA and they're up and coming.   
 Q.  You guys have dealt with a lot of adversity in the secondary, Bryce was hurt a little bit in the beginning of the year. How does it feel being in this position two years in a row, going to a big bowl game?  
JOEY BLOUNT: It's just part of our story. Our team is about adversity and will before skill. Everything is earned, not given. Injuries are just part of the game and how you overcome them. It's not an I player, it's not about me. It's about the team and how we can come together and overcome. I've had injuries. I know a lot of guys in this room have had injuries, but it's really about how you can overcome as a team, and one last game this season, how you can finish it off.   
 Q.  What would it mean to actually win this one?  
JOEY BLOUNT: We'd be the second team in UVA history with a 10-win season, another SEC opponent that we can really face and show the world of college football that UVA is an up and coming program, that it's a force to be reckoned with, and that this opponent right here is very important.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT