U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 25, 2015
Andrew Orischak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Well, what are you going to take away from this week overall?ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, it was a good week.  Not the outcome I wanted obviously making it as far as I had and with a chance to win, but, you know, I played a lot of great golf and I guess I really can't be upset with that. I'm sure I'll look back and learn from my mistakes.Q. When did you first feel your swing starting to kind of go?ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, I would probably say 12 tee.  After I lost that hole on 11, I felt like what was my normal swing, and it just went right.  I guess I was a little quick.  Maybe I was getting -- everything was moving real fast in my head and I just needed to slow things down. Yeah, so I just got ahead of myself.Q. Was it kind of tough with your rhythm?  I know you like to play quickly and Philip was playing deliberately.  Did that affect you at all or did you get used to it?ANDREW ORISCHAK: No.  Yeah, my quarterfinal match I played a kid who was a little more deliberate, just like Philip.  It's easier out here because of all the nice views.  You just kind of play your own game. Some kids are trying to do it --  I don't think he was ever doing that on purpose, but you just got to play your own game.Q. 5-up with 8 to play, what's going through your head?  I am sure it's difficult to start thinking about that trophy being in your hands at that point.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, I was.  I was, and that was my biggest downfall, I'm sure.  You know, just the whole week I told myself I was just going to hit one shot at a time and just worry about that. I thought that the mentally toughest person was going to win, and it wasn't me because I got ahead of myself.  I was thinking about winning before the match was over.  Still had golf to be played. That was my biggest detriment.Q. Talk about the 2017 class.  Talk about how good this class is.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, it's really strong.  I remember going on recruiting visits and the coaches even talking about how strong it was.  It's fun.  Fun for us, I guess, just because it's good competition. But, no, 2015 was good, too.  I mean, it's hard for us to tell, but from what people tell me, this is a very strong class.  Obviously you have a lot of guys ranked highly, so it's good.Q. And you still two more years left, so...ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah.Q. Talk about Philip, though.  Obviously you play a lot more in the southeast.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yes.Q. You've obviously seen some great players.  Where does he rank among those guys?ANDREW ORISCHAK: Oh, yeah, he's very solid.  He's a great player.  He does a lot of things well.  He drives it straight.  He just is a very complete golfer.  Yeah, I look for him to do some things.Q. Talk about the 11th hole.  That kind of swung the match both in the morning and afternoon.  It got you going in the morning, and in the afternoon it kind of turned in his favor.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, I guess you're right.  Well, you know, I didn't hit that bad of a drive in the afternoon.  I saw everyone looking for it, so I'm like, Obviously this can't be a good lie.  I had a hard lie, awful lie.  It was almost embedded.  I was trying get an embedded ball because it was very borderline.  It wasn't because it wouldn't have landed there so it wasn't embedded. Hacked it out.  I made par, so looking back on it I shouldn't have been as frustrated as I was.  Again, that was probably my biggest downfall was getting ahead of myself.  Everything was moving too fast at that point.Q. Biggest thing you learned this week?  Match play is a different animal.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, I'm sure it'll be.  It's kind of tough to really think about it right now.  I'm sure I'll look back on it, and, I mean, off the top of my head I know that's where I went wrong. I was playing very solid golf.  Beginning of my second round I was playing very solid golf, and if I had kept that up I think I would've won.Q. What's next for you?  The AM, probably Junior Players after that.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah.  Bobby Chapman.  Yeah, just some junior -- oh, if I'm not exempt I'm going to try and qualify for the U.S. Four Ball with my friend Doc Redman.Q. You both have to be in the top 400.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, yeah.Q. He's a Clemson commit, right?ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah.  So that would be fun.Q. Does he live nearby?ANDREW ORISCHAK: Raleigh.Q. Doc Redman?  He made the round of 16 here last year.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, he's pretty highly ranked.  Solid junior player.Q. Today didn't end up how you wanted, but all week, seemed like every day you got out here and the crowd got a little bigger and you had a lot of support.  Take me through the couple days.  You were one of the top two players in this tournament, a national championship tournament.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, it was a great.  I couldn't -- I mean, this is all I could have expected, hoped for, is to be in the finals and be 5-up with the back nine to play. I had a great semifinal match with Eugene that was the best I played all week.  Today was probably, I mean, just a mediocre round from me this week and I still had a chance to win. But it's a great honor to be one of those finalists in the U.S. Junior.  It's the best juniors in the country, in the world, so it's great.Q. Then you're also exempt out of the Open next year as well.ANDREW ORISCHAK: Oh, really?Q. Yeah.ANDREW ORISCHAK: That's good stuff.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT