U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 2015
Andrew Orischak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: What's the feeling like to make the semifinals, especially in front of what's basically a hometown crowd.   ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, it's great.  I really had no expectations coming into it week, and it seems like each match I've won I've exceeded them, if I had any. No, it's great.  All my friends and family are out here supporting me.  I don't think I've ever played in front of a crowd this big, and I love it.  It helps me focus a little more. You know, I don't know.  I just love it.   Q.  Was Grider by far the toughest opponent you've played so far?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, he was tough.  You could tell he was struggling a little bit with his ball striking, but he had a couple miraculous recovery shots, including the last hole.  He almost get up and down for birdie from the woods, which would've been, like my caddie says, The "Joplin" turnaround.   Q.  Tell us about the birdie on 8, because that put you 3-up.  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, birdie on 8 was actually my best hole of the day.  They moved the tees up and was playing about 520 on the card. All week I had been hitting 3-iron off that tee from the back tee because I really couldn't reach the green.  I didn't think it was worth it. But I figured I could hit iron in there today, so I just hit my best drive of the week and hit 7-iron to about 12 feet and just hung the eagle putt. It was my best hole of the week so far.   Q.  He comes back at you by winning 11 and 13; how did you win 14?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: I just kept doing what I was doing.  He won 11 and 13 with birdies, and 13 I had a great shot in there and just missed about a 4-footer.  I hit a good putt, so I was encouraged. They had, again, moved the tee up on 14, so shook it up a little bit.  Thought I would take a little risk.  It's kind of a risk/reward hole.  Hit it on the green and was able to 2-putt for birdie.  So it was solid hole.   Q.  14, that was a little different this morning because you ended up behind that hill and you had a blind shot.  What was your thought process?  You mentioned you kind of thought, Okay, should I go for it?  Did what happened in the morning stick in your mind?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: No, it hadn't stuck in my mind.  I had forgotten about it.  I was joking with my caddie.  That hole gave me a lot tougher time than it really should.  It's not necessarily the toughest hole out here. But as you've seen with my shots prior to today, I've got in some trouble out there with my wedge shot, my approach.   Q.  Did that get the momentum back for you when he was coming back?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, I think so.  Yeah, that was huge for me.  To go 2-up with four to play was pretty big.   Q.  How is your confidence level now compared to how it was maybe halfway through the morning match?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Probably about the same, maybe a little more confident.  I hit it a little better this second match, so I think I found something in my swing and just kind of went with that. So I think a little more confident.   Q.  How much does it help that you have something extra to play for, too?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: A lot.  That's motivation.  If I'm feeling a little tired, I just think Holly at prom.  That's it.   Q.  Have the stoppages this week affected you at all?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: No, not particularly.  I kind of found -- they definitely would've if I let them.  I figured the guy who wins this week, and I still think the guy who wins this week is gonna have to be the mentally toughest out of everyone just because of all the stops and goes, stops and goes. It's different in match play because there is no real advantage.  You don't have the luck of the draw or anything.  You're both going out there and going through the same stuff.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT