U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 2015
Andrew Orischak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Just talk about how emotional it is now to win a match like that.  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Oh, yeah.   Q.  And then in front of basically your hometown.  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Well, Eugene played so solid.  They call him Gene the Machine, and I can see why.  He literally hit every fairway I'm pretty sure and was on the flagstick all day, so I had to really step up my game, and I did.  I played probably the best round I had all week.  Putter struggled on the front nine, still able to turn, I think, in 1-up, but really started rolling in on the back, and I think that's what gave me the step up.   Q.  Did it help you hitting second pretty much on every approach shot?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yes, kinda sorta.  Yeah, actually I think it did.  For some people they think it adds pressure or whatever, but I love it.  I think it's great, especially if that person makes a mistake, it's just like, all right, middle of the green.  And if not, you're like, all right, let's go at the pin, let's make birdie.  You know what you need to do, and I like knowing what I need to do.   Q.  At 15 it seemed like the key shot of the match.  You were behind the oak tree.  165, 9-iron?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yes.  Wind was a little off the right.  I was fortunate enough to get in the mulch because the rough would have been -- it would have been a lot tougher because I couldn't get the club on the back of the ball.  I had 165 with the wind crossing from the right to a front right pin, but I really couldn't aim where I wanted to 15 feet left of the pin because the tree was obstructing.  I would have had to hit it really low.  There was a tiny gap in the tree about 15 feet right of the pin, which was a little risky because if I hit it straight on that line, it would have been short-sided.  Luckily I hit a nice little draw through there, hit it to about -- came down to about 20 feet and made the putt.  I think that was the turning point in the match.   Q.  Could you feel the momentum changing when he birdied 14 and then you're in trouble and he's in the middle of the fairway on 15?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, kinda sorta.  I had a lot of momentum swing this morning in my first match that I played.  I was 3-up and then he came back to even, so I kind of drew from some experience, saying, I played a good hole on 14.  I made a par, almost made a birdie, so it's like, all right, I did all I can.  He just made a birdie. So yeah, I knew I was just focusing on the shot at hand.  Even if I made par, I'd probably be pretty good on that hole, and luckily I was able to make birdie.   Q.  And then talk about the bunker shot on 16, which basically closed it out.  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Yeah, that was more than I could ask for.  I learned this shot last week, this little flop shot that I'd be using all week, and I applied it to that bunker shot.  Had a real awkward stance and couldn't -- very short-sided really, and just came out perfectly and spun, went up to a couple feet, and he gave it to me, so it was nice.   Q.  You had a couple putts that probably fall in this morning that didn't fall in this last match.  Were you tired because you played almost three whole rounds today?  Did that affect you at all?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: I don't think so.  Yeah, I don't think so.  I was hitting -- on the front nine, I wasn't hitting good putts in that match.  I was just playing -- I wasn't hitting good putts.  But the back nine I really started to roll it better.  I just think it was one of those things, as the day goes on, sometimes the grass grows a little bit, the grain gets a little stronger, so maybe your speed gets off a little bit, and you've got to adjust.   Q.  You guys were fighting daylight there at the end.  Were you at all thinking about having to mark your spot and then come back together?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Oh, definitely.  I was waiting in the fairway on my second shot on 16, and I'm like, they're about to call it because I couldn't see the pin on my second shot.  All I could see was the white marker for the next hole, which was my aiming point anyhow, but I thought they were going to call it.  I'm sure if we went another hole they probably would have called it, but I'm happy to get it in.  I could just go into tomorrow with a fresh mindset.   Q.  Do you think Holly should buy her dress?  ANDREW ORISCHAK: Not yet.  Not quite.  I've got a lot of work to do and a tough match.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT