FEDCUP SEMIFINALS: RUSSIA v USA
July 12, 2007
Zina Garrison
Vania King
Lisa Raymond
Meilen Tu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  I'd like to introduce you the U.S. Fed Cup team and captain Zina Garrison.   
  
  Q.  Zina, could you talk about Serena's withdrawal and how that impacts things for you?   
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  Well, first of all, I've talked to her and I've also gotten an email.  She wasn't very happy that she wasn't able to come.  The doctors advised her for this week, it wouldn't be a good idea to risk possibly straining her thumb a little bit more.  So it is her thumb.  I guess it happened when she fell when she had the cramp in her leg.   
  
  Q.  How does it change things for this weekend?   
 CAPTAIN GARRISON:  The only thing this changes is Meilen Tu came in to take Serena's position.  I think the only thing we knew when we came into this, it was going to be a tough match no matter who was here, whether Serena was here or not.   
 We're still going to go out and play as well as we can play, go for it.  It's going to be a tough competition.  We knew that.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about being added to the team, how you found out, and if it interrupted any of your plans?   
 MEILEN TU:  Well, I found out Monday.  I was so excited to get the phone call.  It's my first time being on the Fed Cup.  I have a great team, a great coach, great captain.  It's just unbelievable.   
 I flew in from Tampa.  I wasn't scheduled to play anything this week, so, you know, it worked out perfect.  I'm really excited.   
  
  Q.  Can you describe sort of what you see around Stowe?  This has all come together very quickly.  You may have been asked this before, but as you walk into this environment, which has the history of tennis here from two decades ago, what kind of a job do you think they've done here?  What do you think the environment looks like to you, feels like to you?   
 VANIA KING:  Well, I've been traveling for two months now.  This is the first time that I've seen so much green.  Actually, I really like natural settings, so I think Stowe, I know it's a ski resort, but I'm thankful there's no snow right now.  I can see a lot of trees.  I really like everything.  It's really beautiful.   
 MEILEN TU:  I think it's great.  It's a real homey atmosphere.  I feel like it really represents America.  I don't know, I just feel like it's a small town and everyone is going to come together.  It's a great feeling.   
 LISA RAYMOND:  I agree with everyone else.  I think it's beautiful.  I'd love to come back when I'm not playing and do some skiing here.   
 Even yesterday, seeing the reception we did receive, I think it's wonderful.  I think it's obvious that this town loves us being here.  I think we're real excited about being here.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT