US OPEN
September 2, 2000
Lisa Raymond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Lisa.  
 
 
Q.  Just in the second set you seemed like you had control of things, and how did things sort of slip away for you there?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  You know, I think the 4-1 game was huge.  I think if I would have just consolidated that second break, you know...  But I kind of let her back in that game, then I got tight on my serve.  So it was just a matter of, you know, a couple points really changing the momentum.  
 
Q.  Couple points in that 4-1 game?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Yeah, I think if I would have  -- who knows?  Who knows what would have happened if she wouldn't have gotten that first point.  15-love, just kind of made a lot more relaxed...(Inaudible).  Being up two breaks and feeling a lot more freer in that game.  
 
Q.  Did you feel yourself mentally let down a little bit there?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Well, not really.  I mean it was more of a  -- more where I just put a little too much pressure on myself I think, instead of just playing the tennis that I played to get to that point.  I kind of the got a little bit lax and allowed her to dictate again.  
 
Q.  You talked about coming into this event how it was really difficult to get your preparation and everything else going on.  Did you feel like you had any effects of that at all in the singles part of this tournament?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Not really.  I think I did a really good job of kind of putting everything that happened behind me.  At least when I went out there for my singles matches, you know, this is what we play for, the Grand Slams.  And, you know, if you can't get up for these, then I don't think you should even be out here.  
 
Q.  Are you emotionally prepared then for the singles?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  I think, again, I did a pretty good job of just putting everything behind me and, you know, realizing that this is a Grand Slam, let's go, this is what we train for.  You know, I probably could have been a little bit more physically prepared, that's for sure but, you know - and maybe a little bit more mentally.  But, again, I think with the circumstances, I think I did a pretty good job.  
 
Q.  How hard was it to put it behind you? Did you have people coming up to you all the time saying one thing or another about it and you had to push it aside?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Yeah, it's very, very difficult.  I hear something every day.  Either I read something, I hear something in the locker room, you know.  When I'm signing autographs, someone will say something to me.  You know, sometimes I watch the tennis at night.  They bring it up.  So it's definitely, in a sense, it's very difficult to put it behind me.  But personally, I have.  You know, but, you know, obviously if people talk to me about it, I'm not going to say, "I'm not going to talk about it," I'm going to voice my opinion and carry on.  
 
Q.  In a way, is there any lift to it knowing that there's so many fans out there who would say stuff during that match, who would yell out things?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Yes, I've said it all along, the support I've gotten has just been beyond positive.  It's just been everyone from strangers to friends to other players have been so supportive in what I've done.  You know, the stand I took.  And, you know, even after the decision, you know, everyone kept voicing their opinion to me and saying you did the right thing by fighting this. 
 
Q.  That second set after the 4-1 game, was there any moment where you thought,  "Okay, now I'm going to break through, get ahead, get that fifth game"?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Well, again, I was up Love-30 I think in that game.  But a great point, she passed me across the court.  You know, who knows if I would have been up Love-40, I could have broken her there.  So it was very close.  I think it could have gone either way obviously in that second set, and, you know, I think I stopped really taking it to her.  And, you know, against Mary, you have to.  She's too good.  She'll just sit back there and just rip balls all day long trying to be aggressive.  You have to put her on the defense.  
 
Q.  Do you expect Serena to come to you and talk to you about it?  Or instead of just ignoring you, do you feel she owed you something?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  No, not at all.  Again, this wasn't against me and Serena, you know.  And I don't expect anything from her.  
 
Q.  Was what happened in any way a motivating factor for you here to play well and show people?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Well, again, in a sense it was.  But yet I feel like I didn't have to  -- I don't have to prove anything - singles, doubles.  My past results have proven I'm a good doubles player, I'm a good singles player, my ranking proves that in both events. And, you know, I'm still in the doubles and, you know, we're certainly going to go for it; that's for sure.  
 
Q.  What are your plans after this tournament?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Actually, I'm going to take some time off.  I've really been  -- I've got two pretty bad feet, and, you know, I need to really assess my fall schedule and really just, you know, take four, five weeks almost and kind of figure out, talk to my doctors and figure out what we're going to do with it.  
 
Q.  What's wrong with your feet?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  It's two  -- both feet have got a really bad case of plantar fascitis.  My heels, they're extremely bruised heels.  They really don't know exactly what to call it, but it's just a matter of a lot of rest.  And, you know, I've been playing so much since I mean May, you know, March, April, May, through the summer, and, you know, it's unfortunate that I'm going to have to take  -- I think the indoor season is probably my best other than the grass, but I have to take time off. It's just  -- I'm afraid that something really bad could happen to me if I don't.  
 
Q.  Will you stay in Wayne most of the time, you think?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  I think so.  I think at least for the first, you know, week or so, two weeks.  Then I'll probably go back down to Orlando and work out with my trainer and, you know, at least, you know, maintain if not get in even better shape.  
 
Q.  What have you done for fun lately? Has there been any pleasure in the last week or so?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  For fun.  I'm sorry? 
 
Q.  Has there been any pleasure at all?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  One thing about the Open that's always great for me is I see a lot of friends and family, you know, are here.  So, you know, it's always great to see those faces I haven't seen for so long.  And, you know, it's, you know, I've been at the courts like I mean all day, every day, playing mixed doubles and singles.  So, you know, maybe I'll, you know, do some shopping or something now, now that I'm out of singles. 
 
Q.  Did your parents come up?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Yep, they're here.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT