US OPEN
September 1, 1998
Lisa Raymond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Got on her second serve fairly well today? 
 
 LISA RAYMOND: My whole game plan, just in general, was to be real aggressive. Just try
and come in her second serve was just sitting there. So it was a great opportunity for me
to come to the net right off the bat. 
 
Q. You were confident coming into this?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Into the match? 
 
Q. Yeah.
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Pretty confident. I have beaten here already once this year, but, you
know, I think any time you play in the first round of the Grand Slam, it is a whole
different situation; so many more nerves, it's completely different from any other
tournament. I felt good. I had beaten her already, but it is a whole different tournament
out there. 
 
Q. Did you pick up a little bit more momentum?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: The early break was key for me. The nerves kind of went away pretty
early, which was good. I was able to work my way into the match really early. 
 
Q. How do you feel you've been playing recently, Lisa?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Pretty well. I've had a kind of up-and-down summer, but I've had some
tough draws. I've been working hard coming into New York, and I think playing her was a
good first round for me. She made me work hard and hopefully get me more ready for my next
match. 
 
Q. The breakthroughs that Davenport and Novotna have had; do they give you any
inspiration at all?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Well, I think kind of comparing both of them, they are very different. I
think Lindsay, her breakthrough is a lot more physical than anything else. She has dropped
a lot of weight. She has gotten in great shape, so she can stay out there a lot longer
than she used to be. For Jana, it was mental. It is a great inspiration because she is
having her best couple of years in her later years. I just turned 25, that's a veteran
today. Hopefully I can be like her and have my best years ahead of me.  
 
Q. Do you feel a breakthrough for you would be a mental breakthrough?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Not necessarily because hopefully even though I've gotten older now, I am
just kind of coming into my game -- and again, my style is a lot different. It is more
similar to Jana then to someone like Lindsay. Me and Jana, we like to come in and set the
point up and serve and volley, so it takes a lot longer I think for our style to kind of
come together. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT