US OPEN
August 27, 1997
Lisa Raymond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Magda talked about how she thought she had become too aggressive and was making too
many mistakes earlier this year, was trying to talk herself into playing safer and more
consistently. Was that how she was playing, do you think, today?

LISA RAYMOND: Well, I think it was kind of difficult to tell in the first set or so
because I was dictating so well. But I think in the third, she just pretty much got a lot
of balls in play. She really didn't do much with the ball, unless it was a second serve or
a short ball. So, you know, maybe yes to that, that she is trying to hit the ball more
consistently or whatever.

Q. Was it a case after the first set where maybe you started playing more erratically
and she just got stronger?

LISA RAYMOND: Not really. I think that she -- you know, she put more balls in play, but
she really wasn't doing much with the ball in the first set either. I was just more
aggressive, moving my feet better, I think. My feet definitely stopped moving in the
second. You know, I think that maybe had to do with a little nerves. Then in the third, I
think that, you know, I got down a break, which was unfortunate. And I think we both just,
you know, fought our butts off the rest of the match. Whoever was going to win that last
point.

Q. Was it nerves on those overheads in the third set or was it the sun?

LISA RAYMOND: Those were probably just a little bit nerves. I think I was watching her
a little bit when I was hitting them. My overheads are usually my best shots, so I don't
usually miss too many of them.

Q. I don't know if it's a problem for you, but sometimes you're trying to go for too
many good shots too often?

LISA RAYMOND: I think, you know, my game plan today was to be very aggressive until I
beat Dragomir the other day. I wanted to come in a lot and I wanted to force the issue
about Magda. When I was successful doing it, you know, I was winning points. So, you know,
I just wanted to fight hard and just do that the entire match. I think maybe there were a
couple errors I shouldn't have made, but I wasn't going to back down from my game plan.

Q. Is it a fine line to walk between being too aggressive and too conservative?

LISA RAYMOND: Sometimes. I think sometimes people have a hard time deciding where that
line is. But I think, you know, against Dragomir I did a very good job of defining that
line. And today I thought I did a good job, except for, you know, a couple points here and
there. It just depends, for me. That's the kind of player I am, I just have to be
aggressive. If I'm on my back foot or running balls down, I'm not very successful.

Q. You didn't get a breakpoint in the second and third sets. Was she serving
particularly well?

LISA RAYMOND: She was pretty much just getting the ball in play really. The last game I
was up 15-30. I should have capitalized on that. I missed that backhand passing shot. I
should have just hit the volley. You know, she popped in a good couple serves. Majority
were just kickers, just three-quarter speed, just to try to get it high to my backhand.

Q. You've played her a lot.

LISA RAYMOND: We've played each other, I mean, I don't know how many times.

Q. Seventh time, I think.

LISA RAYMOND: We just go back and forth. They're always epoch matches, always.

Q. You saved three match points against her? 

LISA RAYMOND: This year at the French, we played first round. I saved three or four.
The year before, I had one match point, and she won. I mean, it's just been -- I mean, we
just go back and forth. We're very even. We both fight like hell. I think, you know, it
comes down to the wire. It's never an easy match, you know, whoever wins.

Q. She said she thought you didn't like high balls and she started giving you a lot of
those in the second and third set. Do you not like those much?

LISA RAYMOND: Well, I think it was very effective for her. You know, she wanted to get
the ball out of my zone. You know, it was working. But I think, you know, I also allowed
her to do that. I didn't come in enough on those high balls. I think that if I would have
taken some more of those in the air, she would have maybe gotten a little gun shy doing it
and had to resort to doing something else.

Q. You said you came in here with high expectations because of last year. This was
obviously a disappointment. Was it -- do you take it and move on?

LISA RAYMOND: It was definitely disappointing. I knew it was going to be a very tough
match, but a very winnable match, just because I've beaten Maggie before. You know, I gave
it all I had. You know, I really can't ask anything else of myself. I fought like hell,
and so did she. She just ended up, you know, winning a couple more points at the end than
I did. I just have to look at the doubles and mixed now.

Q. For the rest of the year, did you feel you have to get at least to a final to show
some progress?

LISA RAYMOND: You know, my best season is coming up. I'm looking forward to the fall,
to the indoor season. And I think if I don't get to a final, if I don't win a tournament,
I'm not going to look back at the year and say, "Hey, what a failure." I mean,
you know, as long as I know inside that I'm improving, that I'm working hard and I'm doing
everything I can to become a better player, I mean, that's really all I can ask. If the
results come, then they come. But, you know, I'm sick and tired of putting those
expectations on my head, over my head.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT