US OPEN
August 25, 1997
Lisa Raymond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







VERONIQUE MARCHAL: Questions for Lisa.

Q. Do you consider this an upset?

LISA RAYMOND: Well, I think on paper it's an upset. Whether in my mind it's an upset,
that's something different. You know, it felt great. I think it was a tough match for the
both of us. Her obviously being seeded, me being ranked, you know, in the high 20s. That's
always a tough first round for a seeded player. For me, having gotten to the fourth round
last year, I obviously had some pretty high expectations for myself this year. You know,
it worked out well for me.

Q. You looked a little upset at yourself when you had the two points to go up 5-1, then
she broke you back. What were you thinking on that change over?

LISA RAYMOND: I was trying to get it all out then on the changeover. Obviously I had
let a small -- it was a pretty big opportunity at the time, you know, slip by, being up
5-1, serving for the match. It's a lot different than being up 3-4. So I was a little
angry at myself, but I think I regrouped very well, played a very good game at 3-4.

Q. I know you played in the old place, but does it feel any different now with the new
place?

LISA RAYMOND: It's completely different. For me, though, today, being on grandstand,
stadium three as they're calling it now, you know, it was like the old -- it was the same
old US Open. That was great. I mean, I love that court, always loved playing out there.
But being over on this side, practicing the past few days, it's just a whole different
atmosphere, almost like a different tournament. It's great. I mean the stadium is
absolutely beautiful, facilities are very nice, and the courts are great. Maybe my next
match will be on this side.

Q. When they told you where you were playing first round, did they refer to it as
whatever it is now, stadium three?

LISA RAYMOND: I think that's what it's called.

Q. Did you know what they were talking about?

LISA RAYMOND: Yeah, I had been informed of all the new names. To me it will always be
grandstand.

Q. What's your history on that court? You played Seles there a couple years ago.

LISA RAYMOND: I've played a bunch. It's funny, I was practicing out there with Mary Joe
the other day. I was telling my coach kind of my record out there. My singles record isn't
very good. But I probably played out there about six or seven times, singles and mixed. So
one more in the win column today.

Q. Had you won a singles match out there before?

LISA RAYMOND: Yes, I beat Kim last year, Kim Po. That was my first and only until
today.

Q. What are you doing here with mixed and doubles?

LISA RAYMOND: I'm playing doubles with Rene Stubbs and mixed with Patrick Galbraith.

Q. How would you classify the summer for you result-wise? Disappointed maybe? Okay?

LISA RAYMOND: A little bit, yup. The hardcourt season hasn't been too great for me.
I've had a couple tough draws, you know, playing Conchita first time in San Diego. But I
think, you know, I've been doing a lot of off-court training recently, trying to get into
better shape than I've been in the past. I think it's starting to pay off. You know, this
is a Grand Slam. You know, nothing -- you don't really worry about what you've done up
until this point. I mean, coming into the US Open is just such a different atmosphere.
Whatever I did in the past couple of months is disregarded. I mean, I just worry about
this match and tomorrow.

Q. Lisa, you came on Tour sort of the old-fashioned way, you went to college, did real
well, then came on The Tour. Now you have Martina and Venus and Anna, sort of three young
phenoms sort of blasting right onto The Tour. What is your feeling about the three of them
coming up without going to college? Do you think there's still a role for college tennis?

LISA RAYMOND: Well, I think in Martina's case, I mean, it would just be -- obviously
for her to go to college would have been a very big waste of time. But I think she's
special, just like I thought Jenniferr Capriati was a special case As far as Venus is
concerned, you know, I think there's a lot of hoopla around here. She's had very mixed
results. You know, who knows? I mean, I've always been a firm believer of school, just
going even for a year, just to kind of get away and just grow up, not only help your
tennis, but just grow as an individual. I think a lot of girls just don't see that. They
just see the dollar signs. You know, probably a lot of it isn't even their fault, it was
their parents'. They were kind of pushing them, seeing all these endorsements, all this
money, go, go, go. Forget about education and school and being a normal kid, let's make
money. 

Q. What was your reaction when you saw Brie and Lilia turned pro?

LISA RAYMOND: I'm sorry?

Q. They've turned.

LISA RAYMOND: I'm not sure. I don't know Brie. Did Osterloh win the nationals? If you
go to school and you dominate, then I think obviously the next level and the next thing to
do is to turn pro. I think that's the right decision. But I think if you just go to
college and just kind of aren't even dominating in college, you're certainly not going to
dominate or do very well on the Pro Tour. The Pro Tour is a lot harder than college
tennis. So I think that in Osterloh's case, if she did win at NCAAs, was No. 1, I think
that's a good decision. I don't know about Brie. I don't know what she's done.

Q. Wimbledon junior Finals.

LISA RAYMOND: Really? Well, then, if she's gone a year and she feels she's ready, then
that's the next choice, the next level. But I think to just go for a year, it can't hurt
you. To turn pro at 18 is not too old, so.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT