U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Lisa Raymond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk about that call, the --
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Well, you know, it was just -- you know, it feels like I didn't even lose
the match. It was like I didn't get a chance to really, you know, battle at the end.
Because I mean, in my mind, there is no way that ball was in, and, you know, for that
umpire to go with that call, I mean, that is just ridiculous. You know, it was -- I played
matchpoint like I didn't really -- wasn't even out there. It was like I was so still, you
know, angry at the point previous and it was just -- it is ridiculous. 
 
Q. Did you hear the linesperson call it out or did the call come from the crowd?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: I think it probably came from the crowd, but I mean, I just assumed. I
mean, it was six inches out, four, five, at least. I just-- I stopped play, but maybe I
did subconsciously hear someone as well, and -- I didn't even think it was a question, and
then when I saw -- all of a sudden I looked up, the crowd started booing. I didn't
understand what was going on. Then the official said that, you know, the ball was good,
whatever. 
 
Q. What did the chair umpire say to you when you went up to talk to her?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: She said that she -- I was blocking it, and she couldn't see it, so...
She had to go with the call. 
 
Q. Did you feel you were on your way maybe to win the match, the way you were going?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Well, I don't know -- it is not that I feel like I maybe would have won
the match, it is just -- it was taken from me. I don't think I had a fair shot at losing
the match. Definitely -- I was down Love-30 to go up 40-30, you know, with the crowd
behind me and, you know, to get back, possibly get back at 5-All. You know, who knows what
would have happened, so -- whatever. It is unfortunate. 
 
Q. You took a set from her for the first time. Is that progress even though you are
disappointed about losing?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: In a sense, I guess, if you look at it that way. I feel I played a good
second and third set and, you know, I think the match could have gone either way. And, you
know, I felt going into the match, I was going to have to play very well to beat her. It
was a tough draw for me, and -- but, you know, it is -- just learn from it. 
 
Q. Was it such a big swing? You went from thinking you were up 40-30 to being at
matchpoint. So suddenly it was just too impossible to concentrate.
 
 LISA RAYMOND: I probably didn't handle it very well because I got very angry at the
official, and, you know, that is all I had to think about was that call. And it was like I
really didn't regroup and, you know, I stepped up to the line just, you know, wanting to
kill the umpire, rather than thinking about what I needed to do to win that next point. 
 
Q. Has nothing like this ever happened to you before at such a crucial point?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: No. 
 
Q. She doesn't really have any big weapons, just very steady?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: She runs down a lot of balls, and she hits the ball very flat and very
early. So it takes you a few games to get used to that ball, you know, if she likes pace.
If you hit a flat ball at her, it comes right back, and, you know, she just -- she passes
well, and she moves well, and she is just -- -- she is solid. There is nothing really
spectacular, but, you know, she is a solid player, so -- she always has pretty consistent
results, so... 
 
Q. Do you think that she should have said something to the chair umpire about the call?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Well, I mean, no. I mean, it is not like we are friends -- if it was
probably, you know, someone who knows me, I would have done -- in that position, if it was
a friend of my over there, I probably would have said, "play two." This is a
U.S. Open. I wasn't surprised that she didn't put it that way. I mean, I wasn't expecting
her -- it wasn't her position. It was the linesman's fault and it wasn't Kimiko's. 
 
Q. Do you think the linesman saw it or do you think he was blocked too?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: You mean the one on the baseline? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 LISA RAYMOND: I don't know how he was blocked because I was running -- it wasn't like I
was coming from the right side. I was coming straight back and, you know, I guess in a
sense, I could see how the official in the chair would be blocked. But I don't see how the
linesman on the baseline would be blocked. 
 
Q. It wasn't a real fast ball or anything.
 
 LISA RAYMOND: No, it is not like I could have -- it wasn't like a topspin lob that I
wasn't able to have a play on. I mean, it was just so out, but -- whatever. What can you
do? 
 
Q. Have you ever thrown your rackets at the end?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: No and I have never not shaken a hand of an umpiire. I don't agree with
that. I just had to get out of there. I was just so upset, so angry. 
 
Q. Did the sun have anything to do with letting the ball go instead of trying to take
it in the air?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Not really. The sun was tough on that side, but that really didn't enter
into why I let it drop. I honestly thought it was going out, so I kind of, you know,
decided just to let it drop and just run back and see if it was going to land in or not,
and, you know, if it was to going to be in; then I have a play on it. 
 
Q. So it wasn't until you heard the crowd booing that you realized what the call was?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: I didn't think there was a question. I had no idea. I was like okay,
"cool, 40-30 back in this," and then I hear all these boos and it is like
"what is going on." 
 
Q. How did you feel about the crowd reaction? Obviously people were pretty upset about
the call too.
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Well, you know, the crowd is always so awesome for me here. I love
playing here. I always get, you know, a lot of people on my side, and I think probably a
combination of people who actually saw the ball and who were probably upset that I had
fought back; got it back to 4-All; had a chance to go 5-All; then it was like, you know,
they probably wanted to see more tennis and it was just, you know, taken away, so... 
 
Q. You had your tough loss to Gaby at Wimbledon and then today. Two things. What does
this mean for your career, and what did you learn from the summer?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Well, you know, I think that given what happened today, I have to just
put it behind me, you know, it was a tough draw. It wasn't like I lost to, you know, No.
300 ranked person in the world. I have started with a new coach. I have a lot of things to
work on, and, you know, now I am still in the doubles and mixed here, but I will have
about three weeks before I go to Europe; just keep working hard and just build from this
and hopefully I won't have that umpire in the near future, so... 
 
Q. You said now that you have been on the Tour a couple of years, it might be easier to
shake it off quicker than it might have been a year or two ago?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: I think so because you just chalk it up to an experience and another
experience at the Open, so... 
 
Q. What happened between the second set and third set because you were really in
control and then did you lift your game or got a little edgy?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: I think I kind of -- I had a lot of opportunities. She gave me a lot of
second serves and I didn't capitalize on them at the beginning, and, you know, she -- she
started playing a little bit better, but I think I just -- for a split second I eased off
a little bit. That was just a split second too late. I let her get that 4-1 lead and I
didn't hold my serve right away, which was, you know, that was a big game and actually the
first game of the third set was a big game, as well. I think I was up 15-30, something
like that. 
 
Q. You seem to be pretty hard on yourself on the court in a lot of ways. Is that
something you are going to try to --
 
 LISA RAYMOND: I have been trying to work on that with my new coach. That is something
that, you know, so many of my friends or whoever, when they watch me play, they always
say, "God, don't be so hard on yourself; it is okay." But, you know, I have
always had the mentality that I have to be perfect out there, but you are never going to
have a perfect day, and I just have to really learn to stop being so critical of my game,
and just be my friend out there. 
 
Q. Not the umpire's friend?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: Exactly. 
 
Q. What do you think of the state of American women's tennis; where do you see it
going?
 
 LISA RAYMOND: I think there are a lot of girls out there. Chanda is doing great. Werdel
has been doing really well. Obviously Lindsay being in the top 10. And there is a lot of
girls that are younger probably coming up; I am not real familiar with the young girls
because, you know, whatever, but I think it is in a good state. There is a lot that -- a
lot of girls that maybe that you guys haven't heard of or that the media hasn't really
focused on that are coming up that are maybe even in college and, you know, I think that
it is in a good position right now. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT