FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 27, 1995
Lisa Raymond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lisa, you are getting used to seeing Nicole early in the tournament here?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Well, it was funny, when I saw the draw and I saw I had to play Nicole, we both kind of just laughed and, you know, but it is bound to happen.  You try not to -- you try not to want it to happen two tournaments in a row, but same thing happened to me with Zina.  I have played her a bunch of times in a row.  You just have to go out there and just take it like another player. 
 

Q.  You had a year separating you two at Florida; is that right or two years?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  I think a year. 
 

Q.  How good a friend are the two of you?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  We are pretty good friends. She trained a little bit in Gainesville while I was in college there, but she doesn't train there anymore. But, you know, she is a great girl.  We get along really well, and she is a lot of fun, so, I knew it was going to be a tough match both -- just because it was a friend out there. 
 

Q.  Is it hard to play one of your friends; are you used to it?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  I am used to it, but you never get really used to it.  There is always that little something out there that, you know, that your friend is on the other side of the court; you try and just go out there and just play and just take it like any other match.  You are friends before the match and you are friends after the match. 
 

Q.  Looked like she took a shot at you after the match?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  She was just kiding around. 
 

Q.  How do you think you played today?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Well, I think that -- I think in her defense, I don't think she served as well as she did at Lipton, but you know, at the end, whenever you play Nicole, you never really get much of a rhythm. She really breaks up your game.  She serve and volleys a lot; comes in with big serves, so you just kind of have to hang in there hoping that her serve might go off a little bit and I think I did a really good job of doing that today.  Just hanging in there, really when I was down on her serve -- down on my serve. 
 

Q.  You got up 3-1, in the second set; then she came back and it looked like she was going to take control' you won like 12 out of the last 13 points; just turned it around?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  I think that I played a loose game to go -- when she broke me at 3-All at 3-2 me serving, I played a very loose game and, you know, I think I was lucky actually.  She got up 4-3; then I played two really good games after that, but, you know, I really didn't want to let her back into the match.  I kind of was starting to.  Being up 3-1 and getting down 4-3 like I did. 
 

Q.  Would it be correct to classify you as an up and player on the women's Tour?  Do you see your game headed in that direction now?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  I don't know if  -- I mean, I have been doing this for two years now almost, so I  don't know if you really categorize me as up and coming.  I am, obviously, starting to play better tennis than I did a year ago and my results are getting better, and, you know, because my results are getting better; my ranking is starting to improve, so I don't really know how you want to categorize that, but hopefully I will just keep improving on my ranking and keep improving period. 
 

Q.  You are somewhere around what number?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  In the 20s somewhere. 
 

Q.  Where do you see yourself at the end of this year as far as ranking goes?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Hopefully, higher than I am now, but as far as how high, I really --- I don't want to even put a ranking goal on myself.  I just want to keep improving and hopefully the ranking will just take care of itself. 
 

Q.  I am sure you probably played some events when you were in college like in the summer, so you had some notions to what it was like.  But when you first came on the Tour from college, is it something of a shock to your system, the fact that it is day-in/day-out, it is really hard?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  You really can't compare the two.  They are two different worlds, and, you know, like I say, I have been doing this for almost two years, but I am still -- there is still a lot I need to learn, and I still need a lot more experience than I have right now.  It is just so -- the mental aspect, the physical aspect it is so different than what I experienceed in college, so it was an adjustment; I am still adjusting. 
 

Q.  Did you ever reach a point in college where you thought you maybe weren't making progress because it was too easy for you, perhaps?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  No, I think what a lot of people don't realize is that, you know, I went to college not only to improve my tennis, but to mature off the court and to learn so much from the people there and to get an education and I think that -- even though I have pretty much achieved all I could achieve in college tennis, what I learned off the court probably was more -- has helped me more on the Tour than my tennis has.  And I think that a lot of people don't really realize that. 
 

Q.  If you were going to advise a young player coming up today would there be a message sort of like that, that you have much to gain by staying in school?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Definitely.  I think that, you know, a lot of the girls now, they only they look at it only as a tennis aspect, and they think that maybe if I don't turn pro and I go to school, then I am going to miss out on playing tournaments and my ranking I wouldn't improve or "BLA BLA BLA", they don't realize that there is a lot more learn to learn in college than just on the tennis court. 
 

Q.  How have you been playing so far this year coming into the tournament?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Well, I think I have been playing pretty well.  I have been putting some good matches together.  I started off pretty well in Australia and then in Chicago and I just think with each tournament I am just -- my confidence is building.  I am just getting better. 
 

Q.  Nicole said this was her first time she has  ever played a clay event on the WTA Tour.
 
LISA RAYMOND:  Is it really? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
LISA RAYMOND:  I didn't know that. 
 

Q.  She said she usually goes to Asia in the hard courts, but they moved those to the fall.  Did you feel like -- are these more more your type of courts?  Do you feel more at home on clay?
 
LISA RAYMOND:  I don't want to say I like clay more than Nicole, but I don't mind playing out there. I love sliding and I'd rather be on a grass court or a hard court, but I think that you have to play much -- in order to establish yourself you have to play on all surfaces.  You can't avoid the clay, so I like it out there.  So -- 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT