THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 20, 1995
Lisa Raymond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Just how annoying was that alarm?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Well, you know, it was annoying for both of us,
so we were both in the same boat.  But I think what was more annoying
was once we got back out there, you kind of kept hearing it almost
come on.  So it was like you'd be about to serve; it would almost
come on; you would stop, then, okay, you'd say, is it going to
come on again.  It was definitely a little bit of a nuisance out
there.

 Q.  Lisa, do you think you ought to put a little mark on that
racket that you used in the third set,  "This is the one
to use"?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Well, you know, I played a great first set and
a great third set today and, you know, yesterday I think it was
kind of pretty even, the whole match.  I don't think either one
of us really played an outstanding set.  Whereas, today, I think
my first and third sets were definitely better than the second,
and I think Zina had picked up her game in the second and was
starting to really kind of get on a roll and then, you know, I
think that second game of the third set was a huge game for me.


 Q.  Were you losing tension in the racket; is that why you
changed rackets?

 LISA RAYMOND:  No.  What happened I hit the ball and then --
not while I was hitting it, but two seconds after I had hit the
ball, the string popped, so I had to change the rackets.  It was
weird because I had hit the ball and all of a sudden, instead
of hearing the ping pop as I hit it, I heard it as I was like
getting back to the center of the court so...

 Q.  It happened right after the alarm went off. We thought
for a minute it looked like you were so P.O.'d you were going
to leave the court?

 LISA RAYMOND:  No.  I wasn't quite at that stage yet.

 Q.  This is a big tournament.  You have only gone to the fourth
round at Wimbledon; you haven't gone this far, I think?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Well, you know, I haven't made it to round of
16 in this level of a tournament in a long time since Wimbledon,
but I made it to the third round of the Australian this year,
even though that wasn't round of 16.  I had won two previous matches
as I have here, so, you know, I am feeling really good, and I
think I play the winner of Anke's match.  I have played her once
before and lost to her in a real tough third setter, five in the
third, so I am looking forward to going out there and playing,
so...

 Q.  Patty Fendick said about a year ago, she'd been through
a lot of the same experiences you went through; she was All-American
at Stanford; came on the pro Tour and she said it was going to
take you about a year and a half, despite what you thought, when
you came on Tour to really figure out that this isn't college
tennis, but that you will be there some day?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Well, I definitely agree, and I think I kind of
came into this pro tennis with blinders on, and I thought that
I was definitely going to make more of an impact than I did. 
And, you know, I took my lumps, for sure, but and I agree, it
has taken me a good year and a half to get the experience under
my belt, and, you know, slowly, but surely, I am working my way
up, so, you know, hopefully I will just keep slowly getting up
there.

 Q.  Was that good for you to learn that; take those lumps?

 LISA RAYMOND:  I think now that I have taken the lumps, I think
it was good for me. You know, I am kind of glad in a way that
I didn't come out, have some real big wins, you know, shoot up
there in the rankings; then all of a sudden kind of be like, okay,
what am I doing out here, this is weird, you know, this isn't
what I expected, but, you know, it has been -- I have definitely
had my ups-and-downs in the past year and a half.  But right now,
I am starting my game -- my game is starting to come together.
 I am playing with a lot more confidence and I am believing in
myself now a lot more man I used to, so I think that is a big
difference as well.

 Q.  How are you wiser now than you were a year and a half
ago?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Well, I think that what a lot of people don't
realize is the mental aspect of the game, is just -- it probably
is more important than even the physical or even just the talent
part.  I think that that was something that I needed to really
realize and I think experience just being out there and just even
like a match today, you know, I think maybe a year ago I may have
lost that match, you know, because I wouldn't have believed in
myself, and I have already beaten -- I have beaten Zina in the
past two tournaments -- actually this is the third tournament
in a row we have played, and, you know, now that I am starting
to build wins like that and realizing that I can beat some of
the top players, so...

 Q.  What is your timetable?  Where do you see yourself six
months from now, a year from now?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Well, I have kind of stopped looking at a timetable.
 I just take one match at a time and I think if I just keep playing
the way I have been playing, I think the rankings are just going
to kind of take care of themselves and I don't want to say in
a year, "I want to be this" or in six months "I
want to be this high."  Obviously, I want to move up, but
if it takes six months, if it takes two years, then I am willing
to do that, so...

 Q.  Talked yesterday about big points.  Was there a point
in this match that you played that you are particularly pleased
with?

 LISA RAYMOND:  I don't know about a specific point, but I think
that, like I said, that second game in the third set was huge.
 And I think that if I would have gotten down 2-Love or 3-Love
in that third set I think it may have been a different story out
there, so, I think that was probably the turning point of the
match for me.

 Q.  Go back to the first set, you drove Garrison-Jackson into
the right corner; she threw up a lob against the wind; you could
have just reared back and hit that overhead as hard as you could;
but you didn't.  You placed it down the left sideline making her
play one more shot.  And then you put it away for the point. 
Would you a year and a half ago maybe have reared back and just
tried to cream that ball and maybe hit it out?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Well, you know, I think the conditions out there
had a lot to do with that.  It wasn't really so much experience
or anything.  It was she hit a very high lob and there wasn't
a cloud in the sky and those are the toughest shots to hit, you
know, when it is that high and the sky is so blue that you kind
of -- I kind of just wanted to play it safe rather than just go
out and just -- because it was a big point and I wanted to win
that point.  I knew that if I kind of swung at it, haphazardly,
there was a good chance that I'd may have misjudged it.

 Q.  Wasn't that a mature thing to do as opposed to the macho
thing to do?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Probably.  I have to agree with you there, but
I don't know, I guess I was -- yeah.

 Q.  Have you played Huber before?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Yeah, I just told you that I played her in Philadelphia
this past year and I lost in a close three-setter.

 Q.  What did you learn about her?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Well, she is tough.  She has got great groundies
and if we both play well, it is going to be a great match again,
so, you know, -- well I mean, she has to win first, so -- but
if I play her, it is going to be a good match.

 Q.  Lisa, does it ever enter into your mind that this is Zina's
last year -- I mean, does that ever enter your mind when you are
playing her at all when you see her walk off the court at the
end of a match having beaten her three times?

 LISA RAYMOND:  You know, the first time I played her I was kind
of excited because I was like, oh, great, I want to play her;
get a chance to play her again because I had lost to her about
three years ago and I kind of wanted another shot at her before
she retired, but I had definitely did not want to play her three
tournaments in a row, so....

 DEBBI EDWARDS:  It is not three in a row for Lisa.  Three tournaments
she played Oklahoma after Chicago.

 Q.  So she hasn't played?

 DEBBI EDWARDS:  Three times in the last six weeks, but not three
in a row......

 End of FastScripts.....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT