U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1992
Lisa Raymond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Lisa, is that sort of the difference between playing
college and pro tennis?  What happened at the end of the first
set?  You hung in there and--

 LISA RAYMOND:  I think the main difference between collegiate
and professional is mentally, the mental aspect.  Professionals
are lot tougher than a lot of the collegiate players, and you
know, there is no real easy points in the pros, and you know,
against someone, the caliber of Monica, you know, you can't, if
you get a chance, you can't let it slip away.  Whereas maybe in
the collegiate tournaments you get a second chance.

 Q.   Did Alex O'Brien's match with Jim Courier give you some
encouragement going into this one?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Yeah, maybe a little bit.  He played a great match.
 And he-- you know, I think the one thing that I took after watching
that was watching him; how he went in there feeling he had nothing
to lose and he wasn't intimidated.  You know, I was pretty nervous
before the match, but you know, once I got out there, I figured
I had nothing to lose, just let it all hang out.

 Q.   Were you surprise had with the score in the first set
that you were able to keep up with Seles?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Yeah little bit.  You know, actually, I felt like
I was controlling a lot of the points, and even the games, you
know, that I lost, you know, I was having a lot of trouble returning
her serve, but besides that, you know, except when she would hit--
put my serve away or something like that, I thought I was in control
a lot of the time in the first set.

 Q.   What was the utmost fear like to hear all those people
cheering for you to be on that court?

 LISA RAYMOND:  It was great.  After, to make it 5-All, the crowd
just went wild.  I think that that helps players so much, you
know it gives me an extra something to fight for.  I think that
that support out there really helped me in the first set.

 Q.   What were you doing in the first set?  It looked like
you were serving real well?

 LISA RAYMOND:  I was being real aggressive.  That is my game,
when I don't play, real aggressive tennis is when, you know, I
don't do as well, but you know, the first set I was just taking
my opportunities and -- to come in when I could, and you know,
I put a few real good games together.

 Q.   Does the fact that you put a couple of good games together
against the best player in the world on the computer give you
confidence in the future?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Definitely.  You know, I think that the more times
I get in a position like that, you know, against the top players,
the more experience I get out there.  It is definitely going to
help me.

 Q.   Do you feel like her play really picked up in the second
set or do you feel like you were making too many mistakes?

 LISA RAYMOND:  I think it was combination of both.  She wasn't
playing -- she was missing a lot in the first, but yet I also
-- my level of game in the first set was better than it was in
the second.  I think it was a combination.

 Q.   It was just kind of an emotional let-down?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Not really.  I mean, it was in a way that-- just
that, you know, I fought so hard to get it, you know, 5-4, 5-All,
when I got down 6-5 and I lose my serve, it was kinds of a letdown.


 Q.   Did it seem to happen real fast?  You played so well,
then all of a sudden it just --  

 LISA RAYMOND:  I think once I got broken in the second, it seemed
like it pretty much started to snowball after that.

 Q.   On the 12th game of the first set, did the wind have
any factor in --

 LISA RAYMOND:  No, it wasn't too windy out there at all.

 Q.   Was she as good as you expected or better? Did she do
anything differently than what you would have thought?

 LISA RAYMOND:  I may have expected her to put a little more pressure
on me, but you know, then again, I also -- I was putting a lot
of pressure on her, so, I made it difficult for her to play her
own style.

 Q.   Were you able to enjoy that first set?  You had a lot
of people screaming and hollering?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Oh, yeah, I had a great time out there. When the
crowd gets into it like that-- if you saw Shaun Stafford play
last night, you probably saw how the crowd got behind her.  It
make it a lot more fun.  You start smiling and you are not --
you think to yourself you are not playing for yourself, you are
playing for a bunch of people out there.

 Q.   Did her match give you inspiration?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Yeah. You know, I am pretty good friends with
Shaun, and you know, to see her at 35 in the third to the number
three player in the world, I think that is what Martina is.  That
was great.  Definitely helped me today.

 Q.   When you went out, did you think you had a chance to
win realistically?

 LISA RAYMOND:  I wanted to keep it close.  That was my main objective.
 When it did start getting close, I started thinking, hey, maybe
I can win this first set.  You know, I think -- like I said, she
started to pick her game up a little bit, but going into the match
I wasn't really worried about winning or losing.  It was more
of just trying to stay with her.

 Q.   When you were serving at 5-6, and you missed that forehand
volley at 30-All, did that kind of deflate you a little bit or
did you --

 LISA RAYMOND:  A little bit.  But you know, I played -- two sloppy
points there, and you know, I think that is just going to come
with experience, getting in that position more often and hopefully
some day down the road, I will win those -- that game.

 Q.   How do you feel about the perspective that you are older
than she is and she is the number one player in the world?  Do
you ever think about that?

 LISA RAYMOND:  I think the age aspect of it, it depends on the
individual.  For me, it was a right decision to go to college,
you know, I am still at the University of Florida.  This year
around I plan on finishing the year. You know, I just think it
depends on each person.  For some people it is best for them to
turn pro, you know, at fourteen or fifteen, and some people it
is best to turn at 23 or 24.  And you know, you really can't --
the age thing really doesn't bother me.  It is the ability that
counts.

 Q.   When you go out there against somebody like Monica, you
worry about just winning a game.  Is it a relief to get a game
off of her early?

 LISA RAYMOND:  Yeah, a little bit.  I didn't want to go out there
and just get blown away, but you know, when I did start winning
games, then I start thinking, hey, I could win this set.

 Q.   When it was over, what is the---what emotion hit you?
 What was the feeling, like, why you choked up, because you didn't
-- you let it go, or because you were proud, or what?

 LISA RAYMOND:  I think it is a combination of a lot of emotions.
 You know, I was really happy that I was able to keep that close
the first set, but yet I was, you know, let down that I was --
I got blown away 6-Love in the second. But I am pretty happy that
I played her good, the first set, and hopefully, the more matches
I play like that, the better the results will get.

 Q.   Did you hear her start grunting as it got tighter in
the first set?

 LISA RAYMOND:  No.  I mean, I think that whole grunting thing
is-- I mean, stupid.  If she grunts, let her grunt. It is not
-- half the time, the players, you know, whether she grunts or
not, she is still going to beat them.  So, I mean, it didn't --
no, I didn't even notice that.

 Q.   You said that it is a matter of ability. After this match,
how would you asses your own ability?

 LISA RAYMOND:  You know, I have been working really hard lately.
 You know, there is a lot of things I need to work on.  I've got
to start coming in more.  I think right now the basic thing I
need to work on is the mental aspect. Just getting out there more.


 Q.   Is it hard to stay calm out there?

 LISA RAYMOND:  A little bit.  I was a little jumpy, a little
nervous, but once the match gets on its way, you settle down.


 Q.   Thank you very much. 


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT