ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2019
Casper Ruud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. RUDD/M. Berrettini
6-4, 7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Congratulations.  A bit about your match today and about your next match, please.
CASPER RUUD: Yeah, thank you.
I think it was a great match I played today against a tough and good opponent.  He's been playing a lot of good tennis this year, so I was prepared for a very tough match.
And I didn't kind of expect myself to win in three straight sets, but I played very good tennis when I had to the most, especially toward the end of both first and second set.
And I think me winning the second set broke him a little bit.  And the third set wasn't easy, but it was maybe a bit easier.  Like, number-wise it was 6-3.
But it was a tough match overall, and of course very pleased to win.  And now I'm playing one of the greatest champions ever of this sport on Friday, so I'm just super excited for it.  I can play loose and free.  I have nothing to stress about or think too much about.
But of course I will be a bit excited and nervous, I guess, but I will just look at it as a great opportunity and a privilege to be able to play Roger.
Q. You've provided us with a bit of an irresistible storyline here since your dad is from his generation.  What has your dad told you about being a contemporary of his and what memories of Roger do you have growing up?  Did you have his poster on your wall?  Any matches you remember?
CASPER RUUD: Well, I mean, my father retired when he was pretty young.  He was around 30 years old.  So, you know, Roger was just coming up, I think, a little bit.  He was around, yeah, 18, 19, I think, when my father kind of stopped.
So I think they practiced together once, he told me, but he never played him.  So I will be the first Ruud to say that I was able to play him, so that's a bit funny.  But, you know, ever since I can remember, I've been watching Roger on TV.
And to be honest, I've been a little bit more of a Rafa fan and Rafa guy.  But those two have always been my two absolute favorites.
And, you know, I have just an amazing amount of respect for him and everything he's done for the sport, how gentle he is on and off the court, and he's just a perfect example for all young players.
Of course I remember some incredible matches between him and Rafa, you know, in my very young days.  I remember especially the Wimbledon final where Rafa ended up winning in that amazing fifth set.  And I remember Roger beating I think it was Roddick the year after in another amazing five-setter.  So of course he has had an amazing career and the most winning player ever.
Q. You mentioned that your father told you at some point that he had practiced with Roger.  Do you remember when that was?  I mean, was it when you were a little boy or was it recently, and do you remember what you said?  I mean, you must have thought that was pretty cool?
CASPER RUUD: Yeah, I mean, it wasn't recently.  It was when my dad played, so that's, I think, like, 16, 17 years ago.
So I think I remember I thought it was cool, but I was young when he told me.  So I kind of -- I guess I didn't realize how big of a player and champion Roger was at the time.  But, you know, I don't think he had won any Slams at that point when my father practiced with him, so I don't think my father put too much into it himself.  He was a youngster and he was a good youngster.  I think he was number one in the world juniors, so my father knew that.  But he developed the last, well, 16, 17 years to become the greatest champion probably of our sport and the most winning player of all time.
So it's just very funny to think about.
Q. Will your dad be here?
CASPER RUUD: Yes, he's here.  You know, he's my main coach now and helps me more or less week in, week out.  So he will be there in the box on Friday watching and trying to give me some advice on how to beat him.
But it will not be easy, of course.  And, you know, I will always have a huge amount of respect for him, and my father, as well, but I have to also try to think of myself and what I have to do to try to keep up with him.
And, you know, I'm a little bit happy that we play on clay and maybe not grass because I prefer to play on clay than grass.  So I think I will try to use that as an advantage as much as possible.
Q. You probably will be scheduled on the center court, Chatrier.  Have you ever played there?  Have you been there?  And is it kind of now the moments you train for, you dream of, to finally be on the biggest clay court in the world?
CASPER RUUD: Yeah.  I've trained there once, actually, a couple of years ago before they took it down.  It was a great experience.  I felt very good playing on it.  So hopefully I can have the same feeling when I play on Friday.
I don't know if it will be on Chatrier or Lenglen, but anyways, it will be an amazing experience.  And like you said, these are the matches that I work hard for every day and I dreamt of since I was a kid.
So it will be an incredible experience and feeling for me, and I will try to enjoy it as much as possible, however the outcome will be.
But, you know, like I said, something I've dreamed about for many years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT