INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
September 20, 2020
Casper Ruud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/C. Ruud
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. A tough one today, but congrats on a great week.  I know you played quite well today and had a lot of chances, two set points, a lot of breakpoints in the second set.  I just wondered how you felt about the way you performed?  What did you like about your performance today?  What maybe did you not like?
CASPER RUUD:   Well, I think I did a good job going out there, thinking that it was not Djokovic on the other side, because I think of course I respect him and all the other great champions a lot, but you try to, when you play them, you try to not have that same mentality to be too afraid or too respectful for them.
So that's what I felt like I did good today.  I went out, played a good beginning of the match and good first set, of course.  I was trying to think that it wasn't Djokovic on the other side, because then you tend to maybe be a little passive and try to think too much about it.
I think I did that good.  I played still a very good first set, you know, in my opinion.  I was close to winning it with two set points.  But, you know, once again, he shows why he's such a good player and a good champion.  He's always clutch on the big points.
You know, also I had some other breakpoints in other games where, you know, he came up with some great serves and had a couple of aces on big points.
So I guess that's why he's so good and he knows some more years of experience than what I have.
Q. I think we talked about it with you and the Nick Kyrgios incident last year.  I just wanted to ask about Novak's anger on the court.  Obviously what happened at the US Open, yesterday I think he got a warning for breaking his racquet, today was an obscenity warning and he had a lot of discussions with the umpire.  Do you think his anger is part of what makes him so good on the court?  Secondly, do you think anything more should be done to limit this behavior on the court from players like him and Nick Kyrgios?
CASPER RUUD:   What was the second question?
Q. Do you think anything extra should be done to limit this type of behavior on the court from players like that?
CASPER RUUD:   Well, I mean, some players, or especially Djokovic, is very passionate in his game.  Some players just by nature can show more emotions than other ones.  I think that's part of the game.  You know, we're all not the same.
It's not my cause to comment about what he does or what he doesn't.  You know, he's a great player and a great champion.  Sometimes you get frustrated and that's okay.  Some people throw the racquet or some people scream to themself or some people keep quiet.
So, I mean, it's not a problem for me that some players are more emotional than others.  You know, I guess that's how it is.  I'm not kind of that guy, so I guess I'm a little bit more on the other side.
But, I mean, sometimes, you know, players are fined, and I think that's fair, you know, that they, when they do something outrageous, they get fined.  Other than that, I don't have anything to say about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT