ATP CUP
January 5, 2020
Casper Ruud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. RUUD/F. Fognini   
6-2, 6-2   
Team Italy - 2   
Team Norway - 1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously disappointing in the doubles but a fantastic win against another top-20 player in the singles for yourself. You must be proud of your three days here so far?  
CASPER RUUD: Yes, thanks. It was a little bit disappointing, you know, when you lose a close match in the deciding tie or deciding rubber like that. You know, I felt like we were close. We had some chances.   
But we were a bit unlucky sometimes in some important points, but it's how it is. You know, I'm not too disappointed, because I played a very good singles match and I have to think more about that than the tough doubles loss.   
I mean, of course I'm very, very happy and excited about beating another top-20 player and the way I did it also. I played a very good match.   
The score was more comfortable than against Isner. It was a very long match against John. But today of course was a very tough match because you're playing a good player, but the score was a little bit more comfortable. That was also very exciting for me.   
 Q.  You come up now against Medvedev on Tuesday, World No. 5. Do you think you can complete the hat trick of singles victories here?  
CASPER RUUD: That would be a great start of the year at least if I would be able to. He's in great shape. He just came off his best year last year, and I saw he also win the exhibition tournament in Saudi Arabia.   
I'm sure he's playing well and he's eager to get the season going again also. So it will be a very tough challenge for me, but I think there are chances. Like any match, there are chances for both players to win.   
He's definitely a tough opponent and a very good player these days, so it will be one of my toughest challenges in my career so far.   
 Q.  Do you have a goal maybe of where you want to end up by the end of the year sort of ranking-wise?  
CASPER RUUD: Yeah, I was asked the same from some media guys in Norway, and I told them -- because they asked me about cracking the top 50, and I think that of course is a goal this year to try to do it.   
I'm not sure if I may have done it after this week or after the ATP Cup with the points I have gained, but I think the most important is to end the year in the top 50. Doesn't matter if you crack it but then fall out again and end the year 70. Doesn't matter that much. But I think if I'm able to crack the top 50 now and stay in the top 50 for the whole year and hopefully even higher, I think I will be very happy with the year.   
There are so many good players these days, and you can't -- of course you're going to set high goals, but you have to be a little bit realistic. So I think me, if I'm able to stay top 50 the whole year and end the year top 50, I will of course be very happy. But of course I will also take anything higher than that.   
 Q.  Now having beaten a couple of top 20 players, what do you think it takes to get to that level? Do you think it's consistency or mentally or...  
CASPER RUUD: Yeah, I think it's, you know, it's a lot mental, because I felt like, you know, over the last two, three years I have been playing some very good tennis at some points, but I think every year you grow up a little bit more and you feel more mature. I think this year is a year where I have been working a lot on my mentality.   
Coming out here, beating two top 20 players at the beginning of the year is a great confidence, of course. And also, feedback to me saying that, okay, maybe I belong in this level and I belong around these guys.   
So I think that mentally I think that has a lot to say in every match and in the whole season and career you're having. So, I mean, that's what divides I guess the top 3 from the rest mentally, and of course tennis has been so good also for many years. But they are also great champions, and they have been staying there for a long time, which is not easy.   
I think mentally it has a lot to say and something I have been working with myself on a lot and also with some help these last months.   
 Q.  Today's victory is the best victory of your career?  
CASPER RUUD: Yeah. Yes, it is, yeah. He's No. 12 I think in the world. He was top 10 last year and had a great year.   
So of course I'm very happy to get my highest-ranked player beaten or that I beat my highest-ranked player ever. So it's a great start of the year, and I'm looking forward for more and hopefully that I can beat even higher-ranked players throughout the rest of the season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT