U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2016
Fred Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ran into a kind of buzz saw out there today.  Noah has been steamrolling his opponents.  What did you think of his performance?
FRED LEE: Yeah, it was superb really.  I don't think out of all my years of golf I probably have to say that was probably one of the best opponents I've ever come up against.
Everything about his game was solid.  I think he only had one bogey.
Q. On 10.
FRED LEE: Yeah, throughout the whole day.  Yeah, and pretty much he deserved to beat me today.  He just played superbly.  All-around great guy.  I had a lot of fun.
Q. Was it as frustrating to get so far down in a match?  Does it change your game plan a little bit or no?
FRED LEE: Not really.  I stuck to the same plan as always.  Today it was just unfortunate because I hit so many good putts today but none of them dropped at all.  I think I had about four lip outs and I left two in the jaws.  Just kept on going that way for me.
It was unfortunate, but it happens.
Q. Sum up your experience, your first junior.  You get to the quarters and you get to come back next year.
FRED LEE: Yeah, sounds awesome.  Really looking forward to it.
Q. What's been the best part about the week?
FRED LEE: Best part about the week?  Probably meeting all the people here and just playing the golf course.  Especially me caddie Oliver.  Like honestly couldn't have asked for a better pairing, better match.  We made the perfect team.
Unfortunately some of the putts didn't go in.  Yeah, meeting everyone here was awesome, and playing against some of the top golfers in in the world is definitely really, really superb.  Knowing that I can compete at that kind of level, that is a good feeling.
Q. And your caddie is a pro, so how much did you get from him?  Obviously knows the course as well as probably anybody out here.
FRED LEE: Yeah, correct.  He has superb course knowledge.  Every time I needed any advice, he would give it to me, he would be there.  It was really good.  I would depend on him.  Everything he said was pretty much spot on accurate.
Maybe he could have been a little bit better at reading putts, (laughter), but I think he was pretty good.  No, it's not the caddie's fault.  It's the player's.  I really enjoyed my time with him.  It was awesome.
Q. How did you guys get hooked up?
FRED LEE: Luck of the draw really.
Q. Luck of the draw.  You put in for a caddie early on, I'm sure.
FRED LEE: Yeah.  I said to him if he ever comes to Australia I would be glad to have his bag on me and I look forward to seeing him the future.
Q. Maybe go out for a little vacation.
FRED LEE: Yeah, or for some golf tournaments as well.  We've got a few good ones over there, so sure he might be interested.
Q. He's not a pro, is he?
FRED LEE: No, not yet.  Maybe in the future.
Q. When did you fly to Seattle then.
FRED LEE: I fly out tomorrow.
Q. So looking forward to Pacific Coast Amateurs?
FRED LEE: Yeah.
Q. Might be a little different weather there.  Pacific Northwest is a little cooler, a little drier there.
FRED LEE: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT