ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2018
Fiona Ferro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. FERRO/C. Witthoeft
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. How did you feel, and can you tell us a little bit about the atmosphere of court No. 18 which seems to please all the players?
FIONA FERRO: Well, I felt really good.  From the beginning to the end, I managed to remain focused on what I had to do.  I did a full match.
And the atmosphere was great.  My whole family was there, so they warmed up the court.  There is a good atmosphere on that court.  It's large but not too large.  It really supported me today.
Q. Did you feel able to beat your opponent today?
FIONA FERRO: Yes, when I arrived on the court, I felt confident.  I have been playing such players or such level players for a few months; not winning but almost.  I could feel I could beat them, and this is what happened today.
Q. How did you manage the interruption?  Because you were leading in the first game.  After resuming was difficult?
FIONA FERRO: Well, it's never easy when the match is interrupted, especially when you're leading and you feel it might reverse the trend of the match.
But during the interruption, I tried to remain warm.  I did some physical exercise.  When I went back to the court, the first two points were a bit complex, but then I got back into the match quick.
I tried to commit as much as possible physically and tried to remain focused.  And that's what I did.
Q. When there is a lot of audience like that, would you like to have the same public or the same court in the coming days or with Muguruza?
FIONA FERRO: Well, for me, it would be a dream to play Muguruza, and to play Muguruza on a large court.  I felt okay today, but if I play on a large court, it would be the first for me.  I had the occasion to play on children's day on the Suzanne Lenglen Court, but we'll see if the conditions are similar.  We'll see where we are scheduled.
Q. In terms of tennis, do you think you can worry her?
FIONA FERRO: I don't really know what to expect.  The best player I ever played in ranking was Lisicki four years ago here.  She was ranked 15.  When I come into the court, I won't have anything to lose so I will play my game and I'll see what happens.
Q. In your career, this victory, what does it represent today?
FIONA FERRO: It's a victory I have been waiting for a long time.  It's my fourth time here.  Every time I had a wildcard.  It's important for me to show that I have a place in such a tournament.  It gives me a lot of confidence, and I want to go even further and show I can do more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT