ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2019
Fiona Ferro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. MLADENOVIC/F. Ferro   
6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  What do you think was lacking to change the course of the second set?  
FIONA FERRO: I think I was quite cold.  During the second set, I started finding solutions.  My serves were much better, as well my returns, and therefore I am quite frustrated that I wasn't able to make these two or three points with which I could have been able to win the second set.  Anyway, it was better than the first set, I reacted.   
We were both very tense during the first set.  Many errors were made.  I was not playing very well.  Even though I was up 2-0, I was struggling to find my rhythm and I was struggling to return with my backhand and therefore it was difficult.   
My serves were better, as well as my returns, during the second set, and therefore my game was easier to perform.  So it was already better during the second set.   
 Q.  Do you have any regrets, especially 6-5?  
FIONA FERRO: Yes.  I do have regrets also.  When the score was 4-4, I made a mistake when returning the ball, and I was up 6-5, but I think I could have increased the pressure on her.  I don't know how things would have turned out.   
But, yes, I do have regrets on the second set.   
 Q.  You were playing against Kristina.  You know each other, of course.  Was it more difficult to get into the game given that you know each other?  
FIONA FERRO: Yes, it's not an easy match.  I think we were both under pressure.  We are French players.  This is the French Open.  We both had expectations given that we are playing in France, and we want to perform well.   
These matches are always difficult when you have two fellow countrywomen.  We struggled to cope well during the first set.  Things were better in the second set.  But yes, these matches are not easy.   
 Q.  How did you find Kristina?  
FIONA FERRO: We played in Rome two weeks ago, and I think that the match was better back then.  She was quite strong during the second set.  She did not give me many points in key times.  And so I think she was strong in key times and she is in good shape.  She experienced a few successes over the past few weeks, so she's a very good player.   
 Q.  The beginning of the season is quite good for you.  What is next for you?  
FIONA FERRO: The beginning of the season was quite difficult.  I played in Australia for the first time, as well as in Miami, Indian Wells.  I had to find my bearings during these competitions, during these tournaments, because they were new for me.   
And I started the season on clay, and ever since then I had more successes and I feel better for the past two months.  I've been feeling much better.   
What next?  I will be playing on grass.  I will have three preparatory tournaments before Wimbledon.  I haven't played on grass for four years.  I only played once in the junior circuit, and therefore it's necessary for me to prepare so that I get to Wimbledon in as good a shape as possible.   
 Q.  What do you think is positive about today's match?  
FIONA FERRO: I'm happy that I reacted during the second set.  Even though I could have won the second set, I did react.   
But right coming off court it's difficult to see what is positive.  I had expectations given that I performed well in Strasbourg just recently, and therefore right now I am struggling to see what is positive about this match.   
 Q.  Your brother was unable to come?  
FIONA FERRO: Only my parents.  My brother was not here.   
 Q.  Could you tell us more about your gains on grass?  
FIONA FERRO: I will be playing in s-Hertogenbosch in Holland, then in Mallorca, and then in Eastbourne.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT