ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2014
Fiona Ferro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/F. Ferro
      6‑1, 7‑5

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   First Grand Slam; first press conference.   How did you feel on the court?   In the second set you were leading 4‑1; is you played better.   You didn't have the best possible draw. 
    FIONA FERRO:   Well, initially it was really difficult because I had several opportunities for game points, but I didn't succeed.   She was hitting very hard and the games went by very quickly.   I didn't feel very well in the first set. 
    In the second set I started serving better.   That's probably what I was lacking in the first set.
    I was no match for her because I did not get any first serves in.   She attacked me a lot. 
    She was very, very strong on her serve.   Later I started getting my first serves through and I was able to improve my game.
    I think that the game was okay, but when I did not get my first serves through, it was very difficult to be a match for her. 

Q.   You were not scared of losing the match at 4‑Love, 6‑1?
    FIONA FERRO:   Well, yes, a bit in the very, very beginning.   I thought it was okay that there was a good fight, but I didn't win the right points.
    Then later I started being afraid.   4‑Love, 6‑1 she was flying.   She was on a good tempo.   I thought, I have to do something better.   Maybe hit harder, longer, get more first serves through.
    She missed some points as well.   It didn't depend very much on me.   At 4‑1 she started playing really well and didn't miss anything between 4‑1 and 4‑4.
    Then I got a few opportunities, 4‑4, 30‑All, and I made a double fault.   Then it was my serve that was lacking. 

Q.   Clearly, yes, it was your serve that was not good enough today. 
    FIONA FERRO:   Well that's what made the difference between her and me. 

Q.   Unbelievable experience, this first Roland Garros with the grown ups.   Are you going to learn something?   How did it go in the draw when you found out who you were going to play?   How did you feel before the match? 
    FIONA FERRO:   Well, before the draw I thought, Doesn't matter.   Whoever I play is going to be a great experience.   Maybe I would've preferred to have played somebody who was more within my grasp‑‑ although there was a contest during the second set, even today. 
    So I'm going to learn something anyway.   Yes, maybe I would've preferred to come up against somebody who wasn't so high ranking.

Q.   You don't talk about match, you talk about fight.   Is that because you're a warrior? 
    FIONA FERRO:   Maybe. 

Q.   Because during the whole match you encourage yourself, you would hit your thigh and you didn't give up.   Maybe some other players would've given up.   You never gave up. 
    FIONA FERRO:   Well, of course.   It makes sense if I give up here I will give up everywhere.   It's not because it's this tournament.   I mean, that's the way I do it all the time. 
    I knew that this particular player could go wrong at some stage, start making mistakes.   I was waiting maybe for her to do something wrong.   I was trying to improve the quality of my play, but I knew most of the match depended on her.

Q.   Do you have any regrets? 
    FIONA FERRO:   Yes, I think I could have served better, as I said.   I know how to do it; I can do it; but I was inconsistent. 
    In some matches I serve really well, and in others I don't serve so well.   I hope with time I'll become more consistent on my serves.

Q.   The fact that you didn't win the second set, do you have any regrets about that? 
    FIONA FERRO:   Between 4‑1 and 4‑4, I can't blame myself really.   She pushed me ten meters away from the ball every time.   The 4‑4 game, yes, I regret that because I didn't get my first serve in. 
    Even my points were sort of average, and she missed‑‑ so I guess I probably missed an opportunity here. 

Q.   You're not as shy as you used to be during press conferences. 
    FIONA FERRO:   Oh, is that so?   Well, a little bit still. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT