MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 11, 2011
Trenton Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Can you talk about how Coach Dantonio puts a focus on this game in ways that maybe people don't see or don't talk about?   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: I mean, it's the biggest game of the year for us. I feel like everybody knows that, and he emphasizes that this is a game that we have to win. This isn't Michigan, Michigan State, this is a game for recruiting. This is a game to win over fans. This is the biggest game of the year for us, and he lets us know this is a must-win game.  
  
  Q. Could you break down some of the reasons your defense plays so well so far?   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: We all work hard. Everybody believes in each other on our defense. It feel goods to know the guy next to you will have your back no matter what the situation, no matter if you miss a tackle or anything, everybody's going to be there and boost each other up. I feel like that's a huge part.   
 There is no negative on our defense. A team will get a play, and everybody's like, okay, this is what we practice year round for. Let's rally and get it done.  
  
  Q. You guys were one of the first teams last year to contain Denard and force him into some mistakes. What were the keys in doing that? ?   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: Coach Narduzzi came up with a great game plan. You really just got to contain him. You can't let him get vertical. He's fast. We've got to close down those seams, because if he gets space to just get vertical, you can see what he can do. That is one of the biggest things is ton let him get vertical.  
  
  Q. How is Denard different? Is he a different player this year or about the same?   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: When I watch him on film, he still looks like he looked last year. He does the same stuff. I don't see anything different from what he was doing last year to this year.  
  
  Q. Trent, you said it's the biggest game for you. It has been for Michigan State for a hundred years. But when this class came in, there was some sentiment that it wasn't Michigan's biggest game. You think three straight victories have made this Michigan's biggest game too to them?   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: I hope so. I mean, like I said before, it's recruiting, it's everything. It's an in-state rivalry. You've got to win; you've got to play. If this isn't on your schedule as one of the biggest games of the year, then what are you doing?   
  
  Q. Two weeks ago, a lot of talk of the Ohio guys going down there. A lot of guys on this team not recruited by Michigan. Talk about how personal this is for some of you guys.   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: This is personal even for some of the guys even from Ohio. Like coach said, Ohio State was a huge game, but this is, like I keep saying, this is Michigan - Michigan State. To go and get an opportunity to play them again in our stadium is just -- I can't wait. I know that no one on our team -- we can't wait. We'll be fired up, enthusiasm, everything. I don't really -- I can't explain how I'm supposed to feel, but you'll see it on Saturday.  
  
  Q. You're one of the more emotional leaders on this team. Having a week off is always nice, but it being before a big rivalry like this, is there any fear you guys get too amped up for this game with the extra time?   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: No, we'll be ready. The week off was good I think for a lot of guys to get healthy. Myself included, to get healthy, get my body feeling right. You just can't be over. This is it. This is that game for us that's like we got to win and go and beat them four years in a row, it would be great.  
  
  Q. Is there a way you can personalize or express why this becomes so personal? Is it because you see their shirts in the sporting goods stores more than Michigan State, people at restaurants talk more about Michigan? Is there anything that you can bring to light that can shed some light on why this becomes so personal?   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: I really don't want to go all into that. I don't want to go all into that. But I mean you see on Saturdays and everybody else see it's on Saturdays. I'm not going to go into that. I am emotional, and I don't want to get all involved in that right now.  
  
  Q. Denard Robinson, what did you guys do and how can that help you now for Saturday?   
 TRENTON ROBINSON: We made plays. We didn't let him control the game, and that's what we've got to do this Saturday. We can't let him control the game. We've got to make plays when the ball goes up in the air.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT