MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 8, 2003
Kelli Kuehne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KELLI KUEHNE:   -- to go out and have another round like I did yesterday, I mean, I am going to post my score an hour and 20 minutes before some of the groups get out.  Anything can happen.  The course  -- they have done a tremendous job  -- the staff has done a tremendous job getting the course in shape.  They are rolling the greens right now, the greens are fast, but they are rolling pretty fast, so they are rolling them right now, going to get rid of the soft spike marks. 
The rough is brutal.  You start hitting it in the rough, anything can happen.

Q.  Where did you pick up from (Inaudible)?
KELLI KUEHNE:   I was actually at 9.  So I teed off number  -- I finished 18, which was my ninth hole, so I teed off on 1 as my first hole today.

Q.  What do you do for the next 15 minutes, 45 minutes, an hour, whatever you have, until you tee off again?
KELLI KUEHNE:   I am going to eat lunch.  I ate breakfast at 5:45, just like everyone else.  The biggest thing is, I got to sit down and have a meal to keep my blood sugar stable, keeping my blood sugar levels right, because this is a long day, but Dana laughed at me when I told her I was going to eat, but I am going to sit down and have my meal and make sure I can get my blood sugar levels situated with all the activities going on today. 
Other than that, I will probably go out and hit a few more balls.  I have got an hour and 20 minutes or so.

Q.  Don't you have an hour and 20?
KELLI KUEHNE:   I go at 11:25.  So, you know, just hang out and probably mess around a little bit with my caddy, and hit a few balls, hit a few putts, and go again.

Q.  You had a long delay and continued to play well today after yesterday.  Obviously, your momentum wasn't broken by the delay yesterday.  Did that kind of give you a little bit of confidence, okay, I have another short delay, obviously a lot shorter delay here, but does that give you some confidence that, okay, I can keep the momentum going again, I already did it once?
KELLI KUEHNE:   Absolutely.  I was more worried that we were going to come out today and they were going to try and re-pair us, which I thought was  -- for one, we weren't going to get finished.  This is what I was thinking in my head.  And I am glad that they are not re-pairing us, they are just fixing the course up and sending us back out so we can get a 72-hole major championship in for McDonald's. 
This is our second major of the year, and there is no question, our staff and the staff here at DuPont and everyone involved wants to see a 72-hole championship.  And everyone has done what they needed to do to make that happen. 
So do I have momentum for today?  Sure.  I feel really confident.  I mean, the bottom line is you got to hit it in the fairway out here.  If you don't (Inaudible).  If you hit it in the rough, you are pitching out with a sand wedge or whacking it out with a 9.  Those are about the only two clubs you can hit out of the rough.  They are so thick and they are so wet and they are so long, and it's a major, it should be like that.  But you get penalized.  You are better off hitting it 15 yards in the rough than 2 feet in the rough.  At least 15 yards out it's trampled.

Q.  Based on what you say, then, I am going to guess that you were in the fairway quite a bit?
KELLI KUEHNE:  I missed one fairway between yesterday and today, and that was number 1, my first hole today.  And I hit it 15 yards off the fairway.  And I actually had a great lie, I had a little bit of tree trouble, but if you hit the fairways, you give yourself opportunities. 
The course is playing long today, 4 irons, and when you have shorter irons  -- when you hit your 4 irons in, you have a great par, and a 2-putt par is great.  You try and get out, worst case scenario, with bogey.  Pars are great, birdies are a bonus, and bogeys, okay, you can survive bogey.  It's the others that cause trouble.

Q.  Do you consider yourself to be a patient player, Kelli, or is this a real adjustment for you?
KELLI KUEHNE:  I am definitely not the most patient person I know.  I try to be patient, that's the one thing that Jobe, my caddy,  -- his first name is Matt, J-O-B-E.  The first thing that Jobe and I talked about was you have got to be patient, take your bogeys, take your licks, and if you miss it short side, go ahead and give yourself a chance to putt at 4.  Don't try and hit this great shot out of the 6-inch rough.  I mean, just try and hit it up there, give yourself a 10-footer.  If you make it for par, great.  If you don't, take your bogey and go on. 
I have been able to capitalize, when I have missed, I have been able to make the 15- to 10-footer for par, and Jobe is making me be more patient.  Without him, I definitely wouldn't be as patient, I mean, because it's just he and I, he is my one teammate.  He definitely keeps me a lot more calm and a lot more levelheaded.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
KELLI KUEHNE:  None at all.  It was raining so hard.  It didn't stop raining until 8 o'clock last night.  It rained all day.  I didn't think  -- I knew  -- I thought we would play today.  I thought there was no chance we would play at 7:30 in the morning.  I assumed  -- a lot of us were laughing saying, okay, we are keeping our hotel rooms, we are going to sleep in, because it's not going to happen. 
But, I mean, I know the super and staff here were up all night getting the course ready.  And is it wet?  Yes.  But the course is in great shape. 

Q.  Kelli, you have, you know, won tournaments, been on the Solheim Cup team.  Where does a major rank on your Things To Do list?
KELLI KUEHNE:  Absolutely.  One step at a time.  I just want to be a solid Top 10 contender on The Tour.  I can't go from being a solid Top 30 player to being Number 1 and dominating.  I mean, it's impossible.  One step at a time, and I am going to continue to work my way  -- you know, I finished 23rd on the money list last year, and I want to be a Top 10, Top 15 player this year. 
Do I have every intention to win?  Absolutely.  But the bottom line is, my game has got to get better and be more consistent for me to do that.  But a major is definitely on top of my list.

Q.  (Inaudible) where does this 65 rank, for the way you played, under these conditions?
KELLI KUEHNE:  I played very well.  It's definitely probably one of my top five rounds, top five rounds of my life, I mean, as far as getting a lot out of it.  Jobe and I, the quick minute that we had the talk after I got done, we still left a few out there, and I am certainly not complaining in any way, shape or form because I certainly made some putts for par.  I didn't make one 5 today, or one 5 in 18 holes, so 4s and 3s and 2s look really good on the score card. 
I am definitely very pleased with that, considering it is a major.  I mean, that's  -- I played really, really well.  I hope that I can continue to take this over and continue that with my round this afternoon and going into the next couple weeks. 

MODERATOR: Any other questions? 
Q.  A lot of people on the men's tour, when Tiger is leading a tournament, say, well, you don't feel he is coming back, you know, and I was just curious your approach, you know, it's like Annika is going to be the person that you are trying to catch. 
Is there a different mind-set when she has the lead as opposed to maybe someone else.
KELLI KUEHNE:  I don't think so.  I mean, Annika is the person we seem to always be trying to catch.  And, you know, she is that good.  Like I said, anything can happen.  You start hitting in the rough, you start pitching out, and it's going to add up. 
Annika is an incredible player, we all know that, and she is certainly in her element leading because she is very used to it and she doesn't like it if she is not leading, so she will figure out a way to get there. 
So, you know, I can just come out and play the best that I can play and at the end of the day, we will add it up and see where we are standing. 

MODERATOR: Anything else?  Okay.  Thank you, Kelli. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT