PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2015
Malcolm Duvivier
Gary Payton, II
Wayne Tinkle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Coach, an opening statement. 
COACH TINKLE:   Tough outcome for us, obviously didn't defend like we've defended all year.   And we let it slip away.   It was just a few minor details on the scouting report that I think got us in the end, staying down on Booker.   I think he had eight points from the free‑throw line off the low pump fake. 
Transition, I don't think we did a great job in transition, and then we knew rebounding would be the biggest stat. 
But all that being said, we had our chances.   We missed two layups to start the second half.   We missed some free throws, front ends, and you've got to do that this time of year to give yourselves a chance. 
But I'm really proud of this group for all that they've accomplished.   For those that were with us in November and saw us lose an exhibition game to where we came I think speaks volumes for our guys and for their level of commitment to what we were trying to do here in year one. 
So I'm really proud of our guys for all they've accomplished. 
But I'm not a moral victory guy.   We're still better because we thought we could have done more.   Not just tonight, but the last couple of weeks.   But that's what's going to burn our fire as far as motivation goes heading into next year.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions? 

Q.   Was there any one point in the second half where it felt like everything flipped over to Colorado?   I know there were a couple of key spots, but it looked like, sitting in the stands, that maybe it was the handful of turnovers that Colorado turned into 11 points. 
GARY PAYTON II:   Two 3s from Booker.   Once he hit that second one, it was just the whole momentum shift.   We had to stop it.
COACH TINKLE:   We had a couple of breakdowns in our coverages.   He hit one and then we lost him on the next possession.   He hit another and we used the timeout after the first one.   And he got a couple more.   And I just‑‑ I don't like making excuses.   I think fatigue maybe set in the last few weeks. 
But like I said, we'll worry about all that crap‑‑ I know right now it stings because we made some mistakes that maybe cost us.   But I'm going to keep saying this, I'm still really, really proud of this group for gutting it out and for buying in.
These guys went through a lot last spring, when we got in place and they bought in.   And we didn't have any experience hardly.   And guys could have gone all different directions, and they've stayed together.   And it's a great question, when you're talking about the game.   And I'm rambling, but he hits a couple of 3s, you know, broke our spirit.   We turned one over on the sideline, but eight turnovers, I'll take that in a 40‑minute game.
I look at those two breakdowns defensively and our missed opportunities on offense more than anything.

Q.   What does this season mean to you guys in terms of building for the future?   Do you feel like you've set up something that can take you far down the road?
MALCOLM DUVIVIER:   The season meant a lot, especially how far we came from the beginning when we first met the coaches to where we came to now. 
Just so much we've gone through.   We were projected last in the conference.   I think all season long we proved everyone wrong and we continued to prove everyone wrong.   We had so much expectations for ourselves and we didn't worry about what everyone else had to say.
So I think this is just going to burn at us and just fuel the fire for next year.   We set a good foundation this year.   We really bought into what the coaches have to say and we know if we buy into them, we're going to have success.   So we just have to continue to do that.
GARY PAYTON II:   And to add on to that, we knew this year wasn't going to be perfect.   We'd have some ups and downs and adversity.   We know what we have to do on the road now and take it to next year and hopefully we come out better and stronger.

Q.   Malcolm, what was it you felt was maybe missing on defense tonight?
MALCOLM DUVIVIER:   I think it's urgency.   I think sometimes we got too relaxed at some points of the game.   It was a little bit of mental breakdowns that we don't usually have when we're playing that locked‑in defense.   Just we didn't have that same urgency and mental focus that we usually have.
COACH TINKLE:   I think part of it, too, we were kind of scoring at a pretty good clip.   So we lost, like he said, our sense of urgency defensively.   In fact, we talked at halftime, and I said I'll take the 40 points, but I don't know that this is our tempo.   And it was almost like trading baskets was okay. 
In fact, we apologized at halftime.   I said, gosh, I shouldn't say relax, enjoy it, go have fun, because we forgot to defend.   But it was nice that our guys scored better than we had most of the year.   Just defensively we weren't quite as locked in.
You've got to give credit to Colorado.   They are the team that was picked third, right, and they're healthy for the first time and their players stepped up and made plays for them.   So credit Tad and his group for sure.

Q.   That last timeout with a 1:49 left and it was 75‑67, what was being talked about inside the huddle there?
COACH TINKLE:   How much time was left, just over a minute.   I think it was still a few‑possession game.   We talked about setting up our diamond press and that we wanted to try to get a steal, that we could get one more stop and not have to foul and then try to get a score and then maybe now it's a two‑possession game.
We didn't get real sentimental.   We didn't think the game was over.   I don't know if that's what you meant.   But we were just trying to set up our trap, put guys in the right place, tell them what we wanted defensively.   And we mentioned a time or two:   Remember the USC game.   Remember the USC game.   This thing is not over. 
It just, unfortunately‑‑ we couldn't get the one big stop and the one big score that maybe puts a little more heat on them.

Q.   Your season might not be over yet.   CBI/CIT.   What are your thoughts about maybe continuing the season?   Heard anything from your AD?   What are your thoughts?
COACH TINKLE:   Our administration is fully supportive whatever we want to do.   There have been some of those folks reach out.
We'll take some time to think about it.   Those are all great tournaments.   But I'm a little concerned, to be honest, about our guys and the numbers that we have and our bodies right now.   But we'll take some time and certainly entertain, because those are all great events.   But it's something we'll have to think about.

Q.   Gary and Malcolm, you touched on it a second ago.   And this is for you, Coach, sort of the future of what's coming down the road.   You guys have a big‑time recruiting class coming in.   Are you really looking forward to that?   Is that something you're really trying to build on?   Is that sort of giving you a positive outlook after tonight?
COACH TINKLE:   Certainly that's secondary to the excitement we have for the guys coming back, for the way they've gone about their business and handled things this year. 
Add to that, those guys that are going to be wet behind the ear coming in next year, yeah, that causes‑‑ that's a lot of enthusiasm. 
But really it starts with this group for what they did, what they learned, how far they came, and then we'll add that to the mix.   But it's going to be a different kind of new year, because now we didn't have any new guys.   We were the new guys.
Now we're going to have a group coming in, they're going to have to learn the same things that these guys learned from day one.   And that's where we're really going to have to look for, some leadership from these guys. 
But, yes, we are very excited for the future of Oregon State basketball and this next class and the classes after that as well.   Thank you.   That was a good point. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT