NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: OKLAHOMA
March 18, 2016
Drew Eubanks
Gary Payton II
Wayne Tinkle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VCU-75, Oregon State-67   
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by the Oregon State Beavers, Coach Wayne tinkle, his student-athletes, Gary Payton and Drew Eubanks.  Coach, your thoughts about this afternoon's game?   
COACH TINKLE: Obviously disappointing loss.  We'd like to have advanced.  Really proud of the fight our guys showed.  We got down double figures the first half, second half came back and got in the lead, but short lived.   
Give a lot of credit, obviously, to Virginia Commonwealth.  Their physicality, I think, won out in the end.   
But really proud of our guys' effort, and proud of our year.  Unbelievable year for Oregon State.  And the fight that we showed is something that we definitely know we can continue to build off of moving forward.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Gary, can you comment on JeQuan Lewis, and the job he did for VCU today?  
GARY PAYTON II: Yeah, he's a heck of a player, you know, lightning quick.  He pushes the ball in transition and finds open players.  He made big shots late in the game, and he just had a solid game.   
 Q.  Can you comment on VCU's ability to really get inside because I think they had like 46 points in the paint.  Can you comment on that really quick?  
COACH TINKLE: Yeah, that's what we said coming out at halftime was we were supposed to be the team that got in the paint via pass or dribble, post-ups, and we were supposed to keep them out.  And we didn't do that very well in the first half.   
Then second half, we did a great job.  We kept them off the offensive glass, zero offensive rebounds in the first half.  We knew that they were going to come flying in the second half, and I think that's what kind of flipped.  They got several offensive rebound and-ones that kind of took the steam out of us once we got back into the lead.   
They were the more physical team in there, and I thought it was a little bit of the difference of the game.   
 Q.  Gary, I know this is not how you wanted it to end, but if you could sum up the ride this season has been and what your overall experience has been like the last two years and how heartbreaking this is, I guess?  
GARY PAYTON II: Last two years has been amazing.  Coach and his staff came in expecting -- everybody was expecting the worst.  We didn't buy into that and we got straight to work the first year.  We had a great year turnout, we got picked last, but we didn't settle.   
We did what we did last year and we came back this year and got the young guys under our wings and put them on the same program that Coach put us on and we made a great run.  I wish it was longer, but we had a good run.   
 Q.  You guys, VCU would get a lead, you would surge and get back, tie it or go up by one, VCU would then surge again.  What was it about VCU that kept you guys from just sort of using that momentum to go ahead and pull away or get any type of commanding lead?  
GARY PAYTON II: Like Coach said, those offensive rebounds and-ones really demolished our momentum.  They got about two or three of them in a row, and that just hurt us.  We tried to fight back, but every time we started making a run, offensive foul and and-one.   
COACH TINKLE: Offensively we were attacking.  We didn't finish.  We were trying floaters and runners and that's not us.  We were supposed to jump stop, draw contact, draw and kick, and we didn't do it all night.   
In the second half, when we missed those shots, it led to some leak outs.  I thought we were pretty good in transition D, except for when we took questionable shots.  We did a great job taking care of the ball.  Six turnovers may be our season low.  But off balance shots are like turnovers, and they made us pay.   
Then, with what Gary said, they hurt us on the offensive glass, and those are kind of backbreaking plays when you're trying to fight back and get into the game.   
We dug a hole at halftime because we didn't shoot it very well in the first half, and we fouled too much down the stretch.  Otherwise, it's anybody's game at halftime.   
But, again, very, very, very happy for our guys' fight that we showed, but it's going to stick in our craw a little bit.  We're competitive.  We weren't happy with just making an a appearance.   
But I'm proud of the vets for the commitment that they've given us, and we know we've got a lot to build off of moving forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT