SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2017
Kristy Curry
Meoshonti Knight
Hannah Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kentucky - 65, Alabama - 55
THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Alabama.
Coach, if you would start with an opening statement, please.
COACH CURRY: Just a credit to Kentucky today.  I think if you look at the stat sheet, the difference in the game was the free-throw line.  We both had 20 baskets.  But you can't allow someone to shoot that many free throws.
The end of the day, too, I thought that Akhator and Epps did what seniors do, combine for 35 points.  I know we have a lot of positives to look forward to.
Certainly a great run by a great group of kids.  Disappointed in the outcome, but also very, very excited about the future.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Hannah, going out for 22 points today, what were you able to do to penetrate that Kentucky defense?
HANNAH COOK: Well, I owe it to my teammates for getting me open.  Had to cut off screens and change your pace.  Just got to have a quick release, get the shot off.  All that pressure defense, so...
Q. Meo, you made it to the quarterfinals for the first time in a long time.  What does that say for the future of your program?
MEOSHONTI KNIGHT: We've just been constantly improving.  We played really hard this weekend, this week.  We came up short today.
But I don't see that happening too much for us in the future 'cause we're getting much older, growing and getting better.
Q. With Kentucky able to pull ahead in the beginning, kind of hold onto the lead, what do you think you could have done differently to have pulled in front?
MEOSHONTI KNIGHT: It's just a game of runs.  They went on their run in the beginning.  We came back and went on our run in the end.
That's just the game.  You just got to go on a longer run.
HANNAH COOK: Like she said, a game of runs.  I think we could have rebounded better, me personally, as well.  We just needed to knock down shots, so...
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies.
We'll continue with questions for Coach Curry.
Q. Talk about your tournament résumé, why you think the Crimson Tide should be in the NCAA tournament.
COACH CURRY: Well, I think throughout the course of the conference season, five wins probably is not going to get you in.  At the end of the day, we understand we were in nearly all of those, can certainly learn in the future.
We're excited about the opportunity to continue to play more in the post-season NIT.  We just look forward to continuing block by block, brick by brick, day by day.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, coach.
COACH CURRY: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT