ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 14, 2007
Stephanie Dubois
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  So what was your mindset after losing the lead at 3-0, and then falling behind 5-3?  What did you call on to make the comeback at the end?  What did you change?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  I think in the second set I came back and I won the second set, and I did 3-Love.  And maybe at that time I stepped a little bit back.  I was not hitting as aggressive and hitting the ball in the court.  And she really started playing much better.  She was hitting early.  And I just even at 5-3, I told myself in my head I wanted to be more aggressive, and I just keep playing the way that I was playing in the second set.  So I'm happy that I came back, and I really believe that I could win, and I'm happy that I did.   
  
  Q.  It seemed like she was making a ton of unforced errors on the backhand side, were you focusing primarily to try to push it on that side?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  No, I don't remember all of her mistakes.  Maybe I think she did some mistakes I'm not sure on her forehand or her backhand, but I think everybody does.  But I think I just keep -- I just keep playing my game, and I think it worked out at the end.   
 Even in the third set was a little bit shaky for me, but I really came back.  And I just believe in my shots and what I can do, and I'm happy that I came back.   
  
  Q.  What does it mean to get this result in Canada in front of a crowd that was supporting you so much?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, the crowd was amazing.  I love to play in Canada, Montreal, Toronto and here.  It's an amazing people - sorry.  The support really helped me going through that match.  And this means a lot to me because that's my favorite tournament.  It's in Canada.  And since I'm little, I'm watching it and I wanted to play in it, so I'm really happy that I keep going.  And I'll keep focusing on my next match, even if it's a tough one.   
  
  Q.  You had the success last year in Montreal, is that something you can build on even though it's a different venue?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, for sure.  I did good last year.  I think I won against -- I played good, and Frank also did well last week in Montreal.  For me to come here and believing in me and win, it means a lot to me, and yeah.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any friends here or family here watching you today?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yes, I have all my family here except for my brother.  Yeah, and my coach are all here.  They've been so helpful and supporting me, so I thank them.  And I think it's -- it was a great match today, and I'm happy.   
  
  Q.  Could you pick out their voices in the crowd when they were cheering or were you aware of them there?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, for sure, I know where they stand and where they sit.  So, yeah, for sure, I hear them, and it makes me feel better for sure on the court.   
  
  Q.  You said when you were little you watched this tournament a fair bit.  What are some of your memories of it when you were a young kid, and who did you watch then that you really liked?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Well, like with my -- I was going to Montreal and because I'm from Montreal, but I was going to the site and just asking for autographs and signatures.  And I remember Michael Chang, Sanchez even Steffi Graff.  So for me it's nice, it's a tournament that means a lot to me.  I'm really happy that I'm playing in it and I'm winning.  For sure, it's nice.   
  
  Q.  Is this the biggest win of your career, do you think?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  It's one of the biggest, yeah.  She was an amazing player.  She was in the top 10 for I don't know how many years, and now maybe she's dropped a little bit.  But she's been around for a long time and she's really experienced.  Yeah, for sure, it's a great win.  I cannot say -- I don't know the rankings, but I think with the name, it's the biggest win for me.   
  
  Q.  She's 27 in the world, so, pretty good?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, yeah, so yeah, it's nice.   
  
  Q.  I noticed you were challenging calls, and when you won them you were pumping your fist as if you just won a shot.  Is that you were just really pumped up in the match?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Maybe, maybe it's just me.  I'm a little bit I have a personality.  Sometimes you know they make good calls, sometimes bad calls.  But you have the chance to maybe have the point, so, it's just I think it's just fun when you win, it's just funny.   
  
  Q.  You got more right today than you got wrong?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, I think -- oh, yeah, one mistake, I think.  But yeah, it's great when you win the point.   
  
  Q.  Sort of a slow start for you this season.  I'm just wondering are you feeling a little bit more confident as the season is progressing and your game now?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yes, I've been playing really good these past few weeks.  Didn't have a great start of the year, and I think I've worked really hard on my mental and my physical on the court and keep playing every point.  Really, it was really important for me to be really tough.   
 And my coach, Simon, helped me a lot through this, and all the people around me really helped me to believe more in myself and that's what I did.  They were really supporting with me.  And I thank them, because it helps me a lot.  So I've been working a lot on that side.   
  
  Q.  Was the mental part a little harder to kind of overcome?  Because I noticed you're really hard on yourself if you lose a point.  You kind of shriek or smack yourself or scrape the racquet against the ground.  Is that something your coach wanted you to try to put the point behind and you just kind of focus ahead?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, for sure, I think every point is important.  You have to control yourself.  Sometimes I do, and I think that's what I want to do.  And I just have a little bit of a -- I think I'm really feisty on the court, and it's one of my - not weapon, but it's -- I think if I was not that like this in that match, maybe it would have went the other way, because I really believe in myself and I wanted every point, so I think it's a good thing.   
  
  Q.  What will you be doing to prepare for your mechanics next match?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  After here I'll do my stretching and stuff.  But I will -- I will just look in the -- focusing on myself after the match and do my stretching.  And for sure, I will play it like if it was another match.  Even if she's in the top 10 and she's a good player, I will just keep doing my thing that I'm doing with my routine and my coaches.  And I think everything's going to be good.   
  
  Q.  Well done today.  Can you talk a little about the belief and self confidence that you take out as a result against such an experienced player?  Because I think you're playing Petrova in the next round, so that's another step-up itself.  What does a result like that do to your own self belief as a young and aspiring professional?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  For sure it means a lot to me.  I think I gave everything that I had today.  She's a great player, and I had the chance to play against a girl like that, and I just believe in me and my shots.   
 And for sure, playing against another top 10 player, it's really great, and I'm really looking forward to play against her.  For sure it's an opportunity for me.  It's here in Canada, Toronto, and I love to play here, so it's going to be great.  It's going to be a battle tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Did your opponent today say anything after the match to you like congratulations or anything?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  You usually only we say good match to each other.  And she was really nice after the match.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT