ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2012
Stephanie Dubois
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. SCHEEPERS/S. Dubois
  1‑6, 6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Looking back on the first game of the third set, you had a couple of chances at net.   
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Was that a key point there?  
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   Yeah, I think it was an important game, I think.   It was a long game.   Didn't manage to win it.   
We played good points.   Maybe one or two points maybe I didn't took the right decision or didn't go for it, so, yes, and maybe would have changed a little bit the momentum because she got the second set.  
Yeah, I think maybe would have made a little difference.  
   
 Q.   It was a strange game.   Seemed like she couldn't win her serve until that 4‑3 game.   
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   Yeah, yeah.   She was not serving that well.   I managed to break her a lot.   On my part, disappointing that in the second set I didn't, you know, get the momentum and keep on going.   Started to make a little bit mistakes, but I was trying to play aggressive.   I think she was playing a little bit defensive at one point, making a little bit of unforced, but yeah.   
   
 Q.   I thought it was interesting if you looked at the match overall there were a lot rallies that you were controlling.   They seemed to be going your way.   Then you set yourself up for the point, and then it was at that moment that it didn't happen for you.   
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   Yeah, yeah.   I did some good setting up the point, and maybe that last minute that ball was making a mistake.   Yes, yes, that's one thing I think I didn't do that well today, finishing well the point.   
I was starting good but just did a little funny last ball that she can't touch or she missed because I managed to do well in the first set but didn't do it quite well after.  
   
 Q.   Will you replay the first set in your mind and just take all the positives out of that?   How do you mentally look at a match like that when you dominate a high‑ranked player in the first set?  
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   Well, right now for sure it's a little bit frustrating and disappointing.   
You get to 6‑1, you get good second set start.   She managed to make less unforced errors.   I managed to do a little bit more, maybe taking some more risk.  
Yes, for sure, like I said, I need to get that same feeling first set and the second set and go in the match and give it a chance, come back.  
   
 Q.   Do you think your emotions got the best of you in that third set?  
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   No, I think I was very calm.   You know, I didn't throw my racquet, I didn't start‑‑ you know, it was first disappointing how I was playing because I know I can do much better and I have been working on a lot of things lately.  
When it doesn't go your way but it went in the first set and you struggle to put it back together to go win that match, as I should have ‑‑not should have but good chance in the second, she start playing better in the third set, and‑‑ yeah.   
No, I felt calm.   I just felt a little bit, you know, not happy about the way I was playing.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   What happened after the first set?  
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   I played well in the first set, but then I started missing many more forehands than I'm used to.   I didn't feel well with my forehand today.   It came back in the second set a bit, but it was tough for me to keep the momentum.  
   
 Q.   Had you played her already?  
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   Yes, four years ago.   I practiced twice this year with her, but I played no matches.   I had a good plan well‑established with my coach, but it didn't work out.  
It's disappointing.  
   
 Q.   You broke her serve several times in the first set, but then you didn't seem to be able to do that again after.   Why?   
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   In the second set I couldn't break her at 3‑2, 3‑All, 4‑3 because I was making too many mistakes.   I'm working on a lot of things right now, and that might be the reason that I made so many mistakes, but it's a pity I wasn't able to keep the same momentum in the second set.  
   
 Q.   We felt you were frustrated.   
STEPHANIE DUBOIS:   I was calm and contained, but when things are not going your way, it's normal to feel frustrated.   I'm working on different things, and it didn't work out today.   I am not happy, and that's normal.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT