ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 10, 2011
Stephanie Dubois
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. DUBOIS/V. Azarenka
  6-0, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I'm sure you don't want to think about that match, but just talk about it and what happened and how tough, when you fight as hard as you did, how disappointing it is.   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yeah. Well, what can I say? For sure it's disappointing, but I have been playing so well in the past few months, so I don't think I'm gonna take that match. I'm going to probably forget it.   
 She did really play well, I think. She didn't give me any chance. I made few unforced errors that I usually don't do. Maybe I forced a little bit, but I needed to do that.   
 What can I say? I tried my best, and it didn't really work out the way I wanted. Just need to go on and forget that match.  
  
  Q. You're the last Canadian playing today, and now you guys have had a frustrating streak of getting through at this tournament in Toronto. Does that make this more disappointing, this loss?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: I didn't get the question.  
  
  Q. Just the fact that the Canadians always seem to struggle at this tournament in Toronto. Does that make it even more difficult?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Well, I don't think so, you know. Depends tournament. Sometimes you play well; sometimes you don't play well.   
 I did great in Washington. Aleks did well in -- she won Stanford two years ago. We had -- we're playing against the top players in the world. Obviously it shows. Azarenka, she top 5 in the world. That's for a reason.  
 But, you know, what can I -- it's frustrating, but, you know, we do our best and we have done really well in the past, so I'm not concerned at all.  
  
  Q. I meant like specifically this tournament in Toronto. Because I think it's since 1991 that a Canadian has made it through to the third round.   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Maybe it's just our circumstance, but we have great tennis players in Canada, and we are gonna see more good results in the next year, for sure.  
  
  Q. How much does it mean to you to have the crowd stick around and be so boisterous for the entire match?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Usually you win one game and people start to cheer up. I actually was close to win two today.   
 I was focused, so, you know, I didn't -- I didn't found that funny because I was struggling to get one game, but obviously they were nice. It helped to keep me not frustrating and keep on fighting even if it was not the way I wanted it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT