ROGERS CUP
August 17, 2009
Stephanie Dubois
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. VINCI/S. Dubois
  6-1, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Just seemed like your serve kind of let you down a bit today. Was that a comfort thing?
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Um, I didn't -- that's true. I didn't really serve well today. Actually, it was not a good day for me.

 Q. Can you just tell us how disappointed you are right now?
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yeah, I'm disappointed, you know. I won a tournament and I come here. 
 Actually, she was a really tough player to play. She was slicing, and it was tough for me just to find my balance and I think I didn't have the chance to have it today.
 I tried my best, and I was just really disappointed. 

 Q. Seemed like you came in with a lot of confidence just from winning the tournament, and then also last year's Rogers Cup. Were you feeling pretty good about your game going into the tournament?
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yeah, I was feeling pretty good. I think I still feel good. I have other tournaments coming up, and it's really exciting. 
 It's just today was not really a good day for me. I did a little bit more mistake.
 Yeah, it's not fun to have those matches, but sometimes they happen, but for sure it's in Canada, but I prepared myself -- I prepared myself well, and I came there very confident, and just didn't work out today.

 Q. Were you nervous at all? Was that anything to do with it with the crowd?
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Well, I was a little bit nervous for sure, first match of the tournament, of my tournament, and I always get nervous for the first match. I think it's normal. 
 Yeah, maybe the nerves at the beginning I did some mistake, and she was a really tough player to play. She was serving well, actually, and -- yeah, I couldn't find my game that I had the past few weeks, but I'm sure I'm going to get it back for my next tournament.

 Q. Because you are finding some success on the tour and especially with last year's tournament, are you finding that players aren't maybe -- they're starting to know your game a little bit more? It's harder to catch maybe a surprise a bit?
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: I don't think so, because I think I'm improving every year, and I'm much better every year. So I don't think the girls -- for sure when you've been on the tour for years, they know more your game, but yeah, well, the one thing that I can say is that I did great Rogers Cup for the past four years, so this is for me a little bit disappointed for now, first round, but I think I did some great success in the Rogers Cup in the past, so for sure it's a deception, but I did my best.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT