ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 31, 2008
Stephanie Dubois
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. JANKOVIC/S. Dubois  
6-3, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, in English.   
  
  Q. Can you describe the match today.   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: It was really nice. It was a great experience. Obviously, she's No. 2 in the world, so you have to be -- I had to be at the top of my game. I did maybe a little bit of mistakes. But I think I played aggressively enough and I was playing the way that I wanted to play.   
 So I can say I'm happy the way I played. But you have to be at your best to play against this No. 2 in the world. I felt the pressure of her hits. They were really hard. She was serving well, too.   
  
  Q. You came back in your doubles match from several games down in the second set.   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yeah, 4-0 down, and 5-2. I think we do a great team, Sabine and me. First time we play together. But she's really aggressive. She hits really hard. I play good, too (smiling).   
 I think we had a good chemistry. It's gonna be nice. I think we play No. 1 in the world tomorrow. So it's two great experiences this week.   
  
  Q. When you play such a high-level player, at the beginning you might feel frightened, but maybe your win over Kirilenko, were you able to learn a bit about her game or what it feels like to try and learn how to combat it instead of being defensive?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yeah, no, I felt good since the beginning. I think I played an aggressive tennis. I played the way that I wanted to play, even if she was pressuring me. Obviously she's really good, really precise in her shots. She was really coming into the court fast.   
 But, no, I felt I knew what I was doing and I was controlling points sometimes. I was feeling confident, too.   
  
  Q. Do you feel this week has kind of made you feel you belong even more so with the elite in tennis? Does it feel like a breakout week?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: For sure it helps the confidence. I think two years ago I did good, and last year I did second round.   
 I think this year I improved more and I think I'm more mature and I'm managing more everything and I'm on the court, too. I just think it's really motivating. I really feel that I belong here. It's a great feeling.   
  
  Q. Even two years ago against Clijsters, there might be an overwhelming feeling of the power and placement. There was no sense of being overwhelmed by a 2 seed today. I'm talking about the next level up.   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: When I first played against Clijsters, I never played against a top girl like this. It was more. But I think two years after I think I learned a lot. For sure I knew she was No. 2. She was very, very good. But I also believed in myself that I could win, too.   
 But for sure this year and this week I felt more confident. I believe in my tennis even more.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT