ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 30, 2008
Stephanie Dubois
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. DUBOIS/M. Kirilenko  
6-2, 2-6, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. The match against Chakvetadze you had in Wimbledon, how much did that teach you?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: I was saying before I was, yeah, three match points. It was a really tough loss for me because it was really close match.   
 But these matches that you lost this way, even when you arrive today, you pull it through all the match. And at the end I was still believing that I could do it. I managed good the important points. I'm happy for that.   
  
  Q. Could you talk a little bit about how much your coach helped you.   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yeah, Simon.   
  
  Q. Did he help you?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yeah, he do. He did third round I think three years ago, four years. It's great to have him around me. He really helps me in these moments, even the bad or the good moments. I think we're doing a really good job. It's nice to see that he believes in me, and I believe that I can be also very good.   
 It's just that we have a really good relationship.   
  
  Q. What were you thinking after you lost the second set?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: After the second set?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: I was thinking she played a good second set and I didn't do so much, nothing so bad in the second set. I think we had four games that it was really, really close. She continued to play better in the second set. But after I lost the second set, I think I was just -- in the third set, I just wanted to play even better, just to go take the match.   
  
  Q. What pleases you more, the shot-making or the mental toughness, especially down 5-4?   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yes, it was tough in the mental to lose that game, 4-All, 40-15. 4-5. Usually would have been maybe 5-4. But I'm really happy right now that I pull it through and I believed that I could do it. I didn't want to lose this match.   
 But obviously Maria played a good match. She's a top player. She's have win two WTA this year. It was tough, every point in the match. All the time was tough, tough, tough. I'm happy that I managed good the important points.   
  
  Q. How about the crowd? Do you feed off a crowd like that?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Yeah, it's great. It's so good, that positive energy. For me it's not pressure; it's more positive not even pressure, it's just good energy for me.   
 They really helped me today. They were behind me. It's great to have people like this that's cheering for you.   
  
  Q. Is this a better moment than Clijsters two years ago because of how that ended compared to how this ended as you head into the third round?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: Well, obviously she was injured. It was 6-1 for her, 1-All. She was playing really good. I was doing my best. But she was having the momentum. She injured herself.   
 But today I think I really went to take the match. I believed in myself that I could win this match, and I went all the way even after a long time.   
 So, no, it's different, but I'm really proud right now.   
  
  Q. It seemed like not only were you coming through on the big points, but it seemed like Kirilenko was mirroring you a lot.   
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: 'Mirroring' means?   
  
  Q. Coming back with the same type of shot you were making. Did you feel like you were in control going forward?  
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS: I think it was both ways. I think sometimes she was being more aggressive, sometimes I was. I think we had a good - how can I say that?   
 Obviously, I don't remember all the points, but I remember I was being aggressive. I think I was doing the right shot at the right moment, if it was a lob or a slice. I think it was a really big battle. It could have been both ways, but I'm happy I won today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT