ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 15, 2007
Stephanie Dubois
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How did you feel about your game today?  You got off to a great start, and what happened in the second and third sets? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  I think I played a really good first set.  I think I was playing good tennis for me.  She's a really good player, and I think she really stepped up in the second set and third set, and she was playing much better.  So maybe that's what happened. 

 Q.  Do you feel proud of what you've accomplished here in Toronto this year? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, for sure.  I had a great win yesterday.  And I got a set out of one of the Top 10 players.  For sure I'm disappointed, you know, when you lose, but she's a really good player. 
 But I've been playing this tournament for a couple of years, so I'm getting into it really.  I think I have my place here, and I think I really improved these past few months. 

 Q.  Could you hear the fans when they kept yelling Go, Steph, come on, Stephanie in the crowd?  How did you feel about that? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, I felt really good.  The crowd was incredible today and yesterday also.  They were really supporting, and it really motivates me. 

 Q.  After the first set, I'm just wondering if you saw a different player out of Petrova?  If she really turned it on and if you were expecting that? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, I think I had a great first set.  I was playing my game.  And I think in the second set, it shows that she's a top 10 player.  And she really played much better and she really handled the situation well.  And I gave her everything that I have.  She was just playing much better and serving better also, yeah. 

 Q.  Can you tell me, how is the Canadian Tennis system helping you become a better player? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Tennis Canada helps us a lot with the traveling coach or even at home.  They are really supportive of us, and they really have done great things for us. 
 And they're really helping us to really improve and to give us the opportunity also to have a lot of tournaments:  Challenger, even this big tournament and even Challenge Bell.  It's a great opportunity for us to step up in the rankings. 

 Q.  What do you think young Canadian players like yourself and Aleksandra have to do to take the next step to become the next Frank Dancevic, to move up like him? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  For me, I think I have to just continue what I'm doing with my coaches and my entourage.  I think if we keep positive.  We have added some great stuff this week and for sure I learned a lot of things.  But I really feel happy about the way that I'm playing and improving and looking forward to my next tournaments. 

 Q.  So even though you didn't win today, does it help your confidence that you were able to win a set from a top 10 player? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yes, I think it's a great thing for me to be able to win a set against a top 10.  I think it shows that I can -- I have a place here in this big tournament.  And I just have to keep doing what I'm doing, but maybe for two sets, three sets.  But for sure it's really positive, and I'm happy about the way that I handled it this week. 

 Q.  You talked about learning things this week.  What are some of the things you feel you benefited the most?  What have you learned? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Well, I learned that I think if you keep working hard and believe in yourself and play like you want and be happy on the court and believe in yourself, I think you can do some really great things.  It's good this week, but I'm looking forward in the future that it will be even greater things. 

 Q.  Just going into the match today, I'm just wondering what your thoughts were, because going against Petrova she's not an easy player, obviously.  I'm wondering were you thinking a lot about the match last night, and what were your thoughts going in or expectations going in? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  I think I went on the court, like I said, it's another match, another day, another person.  But you really have to focus on yourself.  And for sure I knew it was a great player in front of me.  And I gave my best, and for sure she's a -- I was just playing the way that I feel like it, and I was playing my game.  So I think I'm happy about that. 

 Q.  When you won the first match in the tiebreaker, did you suddenly start to think, Hey, I can win this competition today? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, I think when you step on the court you have to think that you're going to win, even if she's a No. 1, No. 10.  You know it's going to be tough and more difficult.  But I think you have to have the right mind that you can win.  And nothing is impossible. 
 So, yeah, for sure, I won the first set.  I was really happy .  Second set, third set, she really played a good game.  She started playing so well and making more serves in.  So I think she really handled the match pretty good.  That's why she's such a good player. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT