UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Tyrell Clay
Marcus Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Rice - 7, UTSA - 20
Q. Marcus, that may have been the best defensive performance by an individual Roadrunner I've ever seen.  Just what's gotten into you these last few games?
MARCUS DAVENPORT: Honestly, I can't count that as individual.  I knew I wasn't really doing what I need Ed to do in the first half, and my teammates put me in position.  I just had to capitalize and that's what I needed to do, so that's what I tried to do.
Q. Marcus, can you tell us, you're a touchdown star now.  How does it feel to cross the goal line?
MARCUS DAVENPORT: Honestly, it happened too fast, and then I got tackled.  So it's a cool feeling.  If I can get another one, I'll try.
Q. Marcus, I think you cleared the ball out of the quarterbacks hands, it looked like.  You didn't hit him.  What happened on that play?
MARCUS DAVENPORT: I think it's like sometimes when a receiver turns before they catch.  I think he might have just thought too fast and just let it loose.
Q. Tyrell, I know that you're over as far as playing because either you're a former walk-on, and you played already, but to have the kind of game you had, can you reflect on what that means to you from where you came from?  The fact that you were overlooked by so many colleges and here you are.  You rush for over 150 yards tonight?
TYRELL CLAY: I'm blessed.  That's the best way I can describe it.  I'm just thankful that the coaches trust me to run the ball, and big ups to the receivers and the O-line.  The receivers blocking 20, 30 yards down the field, and the O-line created creases and I just took advantage.
Q. Dalton, congratulations.  Just wanted to ask, I asked Coach Wilson earlier, did any of you get a chance to look at the Conference USA standings before you came in?
DALTON STURM: No, I haven't.  I haven't looked at anything.  I just checked out a couple scores, but other than that I haven't looked at anything, really.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
DALTON STURM: Nice.
Q. Dalton, just want to get your thoughts on tying Eric Soza for the most touchdown passes for a career here at UTSA?
DALTON STURM: I didn't even know that.  That's the first time I've heard it.  Shout out to the receivers and the O-line for allowing me to do that.  The running backs for picking up blocks for me, and I'm talking about a couple of my touchdowns too.  It's a team effort, but it's exciting.
Q. Dalton, how important was this win coming off two straight losses in heartbreaking fashion?
DALTON STURM: Yeah, losses are tough any time.  But whenever you lose two like that, one in the last minute and one off of a two-point conversion that we failed, I think everybody was juiced up.  I thought the team was ready to play this week, and I thought we had a great week of practice.  So we were able to come out here and perform not to the best of our ability, but we performed well enough to win.  So we'll be able to enjoy this tonight, tomorrow put it behind us and get ready for the next one.
Q. Any one of you guys, a win is a win.  Obviously, when you break a two-game skid like this.  But is it really more gratifying when it's a physical game?  It was a slugfest out there.  You look at the score going back and forth and stuff like that.  The fact that they were physical, and you guys threw it right back in their face.  Does that add a little bit more to it the fact that you win a game like this?
DALTON STURM: Yeah, I'll talk about it for a second.  That's what we based ourselves on.  That's really what we love, and that's what the other coaches talk about all time, about how big men need to lead this team.  So I thought offensively I thought the guys did a great job.  We had some guys that went down, and I thought we were able to step up.  Some guys had to grow up really fast, and I thought they did a great job of that.  Defensively Marcus does what he usually does.  So I thought they played a really great game as well.
Q. Dalton, does Rice just kind of make you guys play ugly, for lack of a better word?  It seems like they can get you stagnant and it just makes it ugly out there sometimes?
DALTON STURM: Yeah, so like us and Rice have always -- no matter who has a bad team or who has a great team, I feel like whenever we're playing Rice it doesn't really matter because I feel like we come out, us or them are going to come out and be ready to play.
I know my sophomore year we didn't have the best team, but we came out and played Rice really well.  And I thought last year they did the same thing to us.  And I thought this year they came out and we knew they were going to play tough.  So they came out and played their butts off, and we had to be ready to play as well.  It's going to be like that every year.
TYRELL CLAY: Yeah, honestly, Rice is a good team.  They didn't make us play ugly football.  They're a really good team.  We have to give them hats off.  They could have won the game too.  They made us better, that's what I believe.
Q. Marcus, when you saw the ball on the ground, scooped it up, did your eyes get big?  I know you didn't just jump on the ball, you scooped it up.  What were your thoughts when you saw the ball on the ground?
TYRELL CLAY: First thought was, dang.  Then the second thought was the only person that could stop me right now was the quarterback, so I just tried to push him down.  I was like we drove this a lot and I ain't trying to miss it.  So let's go.
Q. Dalton, Tyrell, what's it like on the sidelines when you're watching this guy wreak havoc in the back field?
DALTON STURM: I feel like I'm at practice.  I mean, he does it -- we go against him a lot.  He makes our offensive line and our tackles really good.  He's probably one of the best defensive ends not only in the conference but in the nation.  So going against him every day in practice is just a blessing that we have.  I'm blessed that I have a red jersey on.  But I mean he makes us better.
TYRELL CLAY: Yeah, it's surprising to y'all, but the team, we see it every day.  We're used to seeing that.  Fans and people watching are not used to it but we are.  He's a consistent player.  It's just amazing to watch him.
Q. Want to ask about Clayton.  Jonathan got a couple interceptions.  Kind of came in there on the fly and he had to perform and he got two picks.  Did you get a chance to talk to him or what did you think of the play?
MARCUS DAVENPORT: Clayton's a great player.  We knew this.  And like Coach says, you're only one snap away.  He got his chance and he did great.  Honestly, that's what I expect from him.  We don't have any slouches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT