NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
Andrea Bargnani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Congratulations.  How does it feel to be the first European taken No. 1 overall in the NBA draft?   
 ANDREA BARGNANI:  First of all, I want to say sorry for my English, it's not so good, but I'll try to answer, do my best.   
 It's an incredible feeling.  I feel so excited, so proud to represent my country.  It's an incredible sensation, I cannot describe in words.  It's incredible.   
  
  Q.  Back home do you think this might knock the World Cup off the front page of the sports pages in Italy?   
 ANDREA BARGNANI:  Yeah, I hope, in Italy, all of the attention is for the soccer.   
 Tomorrow, I hope there's a little picture.   
  
  Q.  What is your game going to bring to the Toronto Raptors?  What's your style of play?   
 ANDREA BARGNANI:  I hope to help the team as soon as possible.  I'm a young player, I know that I will find a lot of tough moments because it's a new league and I'm used to playing in Europe.  So it's a new experience, and I have to work a lot.   
 But I'm ready for this.  I repeat, I will find a lot of tough moments, but I'm ready for this.   
  
  Q.  How confident were you that you would be the No. 1 pick?   
 ANDREA BARGNANI:  How confident?  No. 1 is an incredible -- I tell you, I cannot describe the sensation.  It's incredible.  I have no words.  (Smiling) I cannot describe because I am not able to describe in English well.   
  
  Q.  Did you think you were going to be picked No. 1, did you know you were going to be picked No. 1?   
 ANDREA BARGNANI:  No, I had no idea, no idea.  No, nobody told me nothing before the draft.  Just more or less the position between 1 and 7, 1 and 8.  But it was a surprise.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about the prospect of living and playing in Toronto?   
 ANDREA BARGNANI:  Very good, because I went to Toronto two years ago.  It's a very nice city.  I know that there is a big Italian community in Toronto, so it's very nice.  I think Toronto also is an incredible organization, so I'm very happy.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT