CIMB CLASSIC
October 23, 2016
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another solid day.  Can you talk us through your round?  
SCOTT HEND: I just had two blips, 3-putt bogey at the first and hit a bad drive on 18 but all in all the day was pretty solid in the middle and not quite enough to sort of get up to Anirban unfortunately.   
 Q.  What were the conditions out there today like?  
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, the wind was a little tricky.  Seemed like it was coming from a couple directions at times.  But the course is quite gettable, quite scorable, and I've had a pretty good weekend.   
 Q.  How much did the food poisoning hurt you this week?  
SCOTT HEND: My ribs are no good from throwing up.  Just had no strength at all, so took me a fair while to get over it.  Pretty ordinary case but obviously on the weekend I was feeling much better and back to full strength again.  Just got to be a little bit careful.   
 Q.  A good performance here and good momentum you're riding; are you confident about next week?  
SCOTT HEND: We'll see what happens.  Different sort of grass.  Different golf course.  But I really enjoy playing that course.  I struggle a little bit around here, so to try and finish around the Top-10 is a pretty good effort for me on this golf course.   
 Q.  In terms of your game, the way you played this week, I think there's a lot of positives that you can take into next week?  
SCOTT HEND: Of course.  It's just unfortunate, like I said, that I was really, really sick for the last week.  And I spent all day Monday in bed with diarrhea and just sore ribs from throwing up.  To sort of recover this quick, it's pretty good.   
Unfortunately I wasn't fully fit on Thursday and it is what it is.  I can't really control that.  It's just unfortunate that I was the one who got sick.   
 Q.  Can you give us a bit of reflection on the Order of Merit race right now?  
SCOTT HEND: Depends on what Anirban does whether I'm able to win the Order of Merit or not.  It's all in Anirban's hands right now.  If he can finish second, he can overtake me.  The money is so big here; doesn't matter how many times you win during the year, unless you play good here, it's very difficult to win the Order of Merit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT