ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2016
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you make of 3-under par to start?  Very?
SCOTT HEND: Very happy.  Obviously conditions were quite tough and was a little bit scrappy with some putts not quite getting to the hole but overall very happy.
Q. It would have been very noticeable after a couple of hours when you had very pleasant conditions and the wind really picked up?
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, we played that 17 and 18 really long.  Obviously those holes are very long into the wind.  Like I said, very happy.
Q. Is it brutal or is it just what you expect?
SCOTT HEND: Well, we're just not so used to playing off such tight lies and playing into a strong wind.  So sort of trying to get back to trying to adjust for the spin rate off those lies into the wind.  It's just something we haven't been used to for awhile.
Q. I guess it takes some adjustment to play links golf anyway but how much more are you adjusting here?
SCOTT HEND: It's awesome fun.  It's awesome.  Don't matter how hard it is.  When you play links golf, it's just awesome.  It's great.
Q. You relish it; you have a history of it?
SCOTT HEND: I love it.  I love it.  Beats your head in, kicks you around, and sometimes you get it back.  It's just great.  Great fun.  It's exciting.
Q. When did you know you were in The Open?
SCOTT HEND: The French Open last week on the Tuesday morning, I found out.
Q. Which was wonderful news I take it?
SCOTT HEND: It's always wonderful news when you find out you're in a major, and on the same day, I found out I was in the US PGA and then same day, I found out that Jason had withdrawn from the Olympics and I was pretty much a lock for the Olympics, as well.  So I had a hat trick in the same day.
Q. In terms of this tournament, how important is it then knowing you've got a major on the horizon?
SCOTT HEND: Well, I think most important thing is to try to get used to the grass.  Like I said, the spin rate of the ball coming off the grass and the club with these lies, and especially around the greens where you have to keep the ball on the ground a bit more and possibly putt from five, ten yards off the green, try to get used to that instead of just lobbing off shots all the time.
Q. How stoked are you about the Olympics?
SCOTT HEND: It's awesome.  Putting on Australian colours and representing the country is going to be a phenomenal experience.  I can't wait for it to happen.  It's going to be awesome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT