BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2016
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. On 13 tee, you had a two-shot lead and then suddenly the wheels began to come off; so therefore, that eagle at the last, how much of a rescue act was that for you today?
SCOTT HEND: Obviously I was 3-over par coming into the last, make a 4, make a 3, it's always an added bonus.  I wasn't aware I had a two-shot lead to be quite honest with you because I didn't really look at any leaderboards.  Struggled through the middle but stayed in it coming in.
Q. I know you've won tournaments all over the world in seven different countries and two on The European Tour in total, but this championship, how big is this one and how big a win would this be, were it to happen?
SCOTT HEND: Obviously it's a big one, but put it in perspective, to me, I just treat it like another tournament.  If things happen afterwards, then you sort of go back in retrospect, think about it.  But right now, it's just another golf tournament and I'm just trying to do what I do for a living.
Q. Second day in a row, you've had the 18th hole's number.  Take me through the second shot.
SCOTT HEND: We had like 160 cover, and fortunately had a nice lie in the rough and just hit a nice, neutral 8-iron.  Hoped that it landed in the right spot and lucky enough that it bounced close to the hole.
Q. How big is that for you, considering where you were on the leaderboard, to be able to vault yourself into the final group, into the lead with that shot?
SCOTT HEND: Well, look, it's going to be nice tomorrow, because it's pretty congested there.  This golf course is starting to firm up.  If the sun stays out, it's going to be quite tricky.  Always great to have a few extra shots in the pocket and just see what happens.
Q. Week-to-week, you don't know which game possibly could show up; so far, it's been great for you threw 54 holes.  What's been the key to get you to this point?
SCOTT HEND: A bit of luck, a bit of patience.  This is golf; you need a bit of luck in golf, and also you need to be patient.  Fortunately enough, I've had both and tomorrow hopefully a little bit of skill involved.
Q. What did you think of that finish then for the second day in a row?
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, it was a nice bonus.  Obviously a lot of guys were struggling coming down the last six holes out there.  I made a mess of 17, and to make eagle on 18 was very fortunate.  I got a lucky bounce, but it was very nice.
Q. It obviously makes a very keen difference to that leaderboard.  You're the outright leader for the first time this week?
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, but after 72 holes it would be nice to be the outright leader.  Right now there's a lot of guys up there.  It's going to be pretty competitive up there.  Looking forward to it.
Q. Elaborate why it was hard work out there today.
SCOTT HEND: The wind was a little bit tricky and I haven't quite got my swing where I want it to be.  I'm not quite getting the ball over the center of the club all the time.  The way they tuck the pins away here, if you're not quite striking the ball sweetly, it's pretty hard to get at the pins.  You miss your shot, you get in those bunkers, you're in a lot of trouble.  It's one of those golf courses where you can be off a little bit and rack up a big score.
A little bit of luck, a little bit of skill, you never know what's going to happen.
Q. Presumably you feel pretty much on top of your game, given the way the season's going.
SCOTT HEND: Far from it.  It's a work-in-progress all the time.  Golf is one of those things where it's up-and-down, like I've always said.  You know, each day is different from the next.  Just take it as it comes.
Q. You've done it on The European Tour and you've done it on other tours and you haven't necessarily done it in Europe.  Is there a particular approach into the final day or just the same as you'd always be?
SCOTT HEND: It's just a matter of time.
Q. Could be tomorrow.
SCOTT HEND: It could be tomorrow.  It could be next week.  It could be next year.  Just take it as it comes, but it's just a matter of time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT