BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about that finish, because presumably that's all the more delightful after what came before?
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, I'd been struggling all day to get the ball over the center of the club, get it around as best I can.  Came up 18, hit a nice little sliding driver down there and sort of chunked a 6-iron not as good as I'd like to hit it.
I was in between 6 and 7 and I took a 6 and caught it a little bit thick.  But was nicely on the green and knew I had a quick putt, so just hit the putt where I thought it could go and rolled all the way.  It was quite nice.  Good result considering I was floundering coming down the last few holes and put a positive going into the weekend.
Q. There were the back-to-back birdies to reach the top spot, as well.
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, but like I said, I wasn't quite getting the ball in the middle of the club.  We'll see what happens.  We'll keep working at it.
Q. The winds picked up a little bit during the day.  Was that particularly tricky in places?
SCOTT HEND: Not extremely strong compared to last week in Mauritius.  Around here, it does get a little bit tricky.  It's more when you have got your wedge into the green, it just produces a bit more spin, so it's harder to stop the ball on the green.  Keeps ripping off the front of the green.
Q. After the winds, and then Ireland with the storm, nice to be in the lead with a late start on the third day?
SCOTT HEND: Well, that's where you want to be.  Put yourself in those positions as many times as you can.  Hopefully you come through.  It's nice.
Q. Tell us about the caddie situation.  I know Tony has gone off into the Outback for four and a half months.
SCOTT HEND: He's a good guy.  He's up for it trying to putt up with me and see when I'm like on the golf course.  He's done an amazing job.  So he's doing a good job so far and we'll just see how it goes, where it goes.
Q. And you've got to put up with him, as well, nonstop talking, isn't it?
SCOTT HEND: No, just tell him to be quiet.  No problem.  Start talking about fishing.  He's more of a rugby man.
Q. Heard anything from Tony in the Outback?
SCOTT HEND: All I know is he's somewhere in northeast Queensland working his way across.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT