BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The early pacesetter, if you will, 7-under 65.  What was the key to putting together such a nice round?
SCOTT HEND: Just course management, being patient on the course, not hitting driver when I really wanted to hit driver.  Obviously I holed a couple nice putts.
Q. As far as your game plan out of the gates, was the mind-set to be aggressive, or once you got off to a quick start, you saw the numbers were coming to you?
SCOTT HEND: I tried aggressive last year and it really doesn't work.  So thought I'd just be a little bit cautious, a little cautious, and a bit more aggressive into the greens.  We'll see how that plays out during the week.  There's a long three more days to go and obviously weather permitting, see what happens.
Q. You've won the True Thailand classic early in the year and you've had four Top 10s so far this season.  How comfortable are you with your game?
SCOTT HEND: Every week for me is a different week.  Form for me is not really a true indication of everything.  Like I missed three cuts and I can win the following week.  You can read into it what you will.
I'm comfortable wherever I'm playing, whether I'm running last or whether I'm running first.  Just one foot in front of the other and keep going.
Q. How do you go from missing the cut one year at Wentworth to shooting a 65 next?
SCOTT HEND: I don't know.  How do you move from shooting 22-over at Doral and winning the following week?  Same sort of answer.  It's a different week, different day, different attitude.  Playing golf.
Q. In this instance, is it very much attitude and maybe getting used to the West Course?
SCOTT HEND: It's a little bit of course management around here.  And the golf courses in Europe, I'm trying to get a grasp of, a couple of fingers grasping and just trying to get a full handle on the grass and how to play them.  Different type of golf than what I'm used to, so I've got to be a little more patient.
Q. What do you need around Wentworth?
SCOTT HEND: I obviously holed some nice putts, positioned the ball off the tee and kept it out of the fairway traps.  The traps here are pretty brutal, pretty punishing.  You hit it in the traps, you're struggling to make a par.  Keep it on the grass whether it be a little bit long or short grass, you've got a chance.
Q. Do you like this place and the challenge it presents?
SCOTT HEND: I love the challenge.  Golf course, I can either leave it or take it.  Some of the tee shots I don't really -- I'm not very fond of, but that's the way it is and that's the way I've got to play it.
Q. And this is a terrific start, it goes without saying, but it's a lovely foundation for the week, as well.  Presumably it makes you feel that everything is in gear when you get off to this flyer?
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, it would be nice to show up tomorrow and the sun is out.  We'll see what happens tomorrow.  We'll keep trying to go forward.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT