HONG KONG OPEN
October 18, 2014
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about a day that started so explosively?
SCOTT HEND:   Lost my way in the middle there, a little bit messy but nice to hang in there for tomorrow and not play myself out of it.   Just had a rough time in the middle of the round.   Overall pretty good.

Q.   The last hole you had a rough time but you got out of it in a nice style. 
SCOTT HEND:   Played a pretty poor bunker shot.   The tee shot was bad concentration, and just the bunker shot was really a poor shot.   So lucky to get away with par and come tomorrow, see what happens.

Q.   Tell me if I'm wrong but presumably what you were saying about not playing often enough, there's that little bit of rustiness every now and again, you don't have every shot to the perfection you'd want?
SCOTT HEND:   Don't know about rust.   Maybe a couple brain cells missing.   You know, one of those things.   Just come tomorrow and have a crack at it. 

Q.   Only the third day, but excitement seeing your name at the top of that board for a while?
SCOTT HEND:   No, not exciting.   Just trying to do my job.   I'll be excited tomorrow night if I've got a trophy and have a few celebration drinks at 8.00 at night, that's when I'll be excited.   Right now got a job to do and a lot of good players on the board.

Q.   You've put yourself in a good position?
SCOTT HEND:   Yeah, just stop making silly mistakes and play the golf course how it's supposed to be played and we'll have a chance.

Q.   You sound like you're beating yourself up about this, but can you shrug it off and go again tomorrow?
SCOTT HEND:   I'm not beating myself up.   Like I said, 67 is always a good score around here.   Like I said, I'm happy that I held on through the middle, a bit of a rough patch and managed to fight my way through it.   Like I said, tomorrow is another day.   I could come and open up with six straight birdies, who knows.   That would be nice, but a bit of a hard task.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT