U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2011
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you tell us about your round?  
 SCOTT HEND: Shot 69, got lucky on a couple of shots. Fortunate enough to get the lies in the rough where I could dig it out and get to the green and get it up and down. It was one of those U.S. Open grinds.  
  
  Q. Really a difference on two nines. 2-over on your first nine, the back nine, and then 4-over on the front?  
 SCOTT HEND: Guys have been telling me the back nine is more difficult than the front. And obviously my score proved that today for myself. I found it a bit hard the first nine to get settled into a decent swing and I found my swing more as I went on through the round. And it just all came together.  
  
  Q. Talk about the setup out there. USGA is always looking to make this the toughest test of golf, but Mike Davis has been working very hard the last five years to make it fair, as well. Do you think they've achieved that here?  
 SCOTT HEND: Yes, I think it's fair. You can hit it in the rough and you can get a bad lie, and you can get a good lie. The bunkers are plugging. Occasionally they plug. There's a few pins out there today where it looked like they were trying to get rid of that pin placement in case the greens got a little bit dodgey. I think it might have been on the 4th hole, the short par-4 -- well, 470. It was dead around the hole. They get rid of them today and they won't have any problems the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. Getting off to a good start is especially good in a Major championship where it's about to get harder as the rounds progress. How do you feel?  
 SCOTT HEND: I've played one round of golf, I've got three more to go, hopefully. Rory is out there ripping it up now. Comparatively, you look at your score, and you wonder what you did wrong. He obviously plays quite well the first rounds of these Majors and you just have to try to hang with him.   
  
  Q. He's showing a pretty good aptitude for major championships the way he's been playing.   
 SCOTT HEND: He's getting it done.   
  
  Q. I just talked to Paul Casey yesterday and he said the way Rory hits these high long shots, it's perfect for this course, and we're seeing that today?  
 SCOTT HEND: Well, he's a quality golfer, it's just showing how good of quality he is right now.  
  
  Q. Your game right now, obviously this is a great round of golf out there. Did you find something today?  
 SCOTT HEND: I've been searching for months. I'm still looking. That's just golf. I'm still looking for it. Hopefully I'll find it sometime. Golf is a game of grinding.  
  
  Q. What did you do best today?  
 SCOTT HEND: Scrambled. And luckily, fortunately enough, that's what matters in the U.S. Open is if you can scramble, you've got a chance of shooting the score, and that's what I did. If I didn't scramble, I would have shot over par.   
 Hopefully I can produce a few better more quality shots tomorrow and I won't have as much pressure trying to get it up and down.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT