DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2017
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey on last but way too many positives.  You made five birdies in a six-hole stretch.  When you look back on this round, what do you think your strengths were?
SCOTT HEND: Just trying to stick with my job and staying in the moment, which I haven't done in the last couple weeks.  Just small steps towards to where I want to be.  That's just what we've been working on.
Q. Define sticking in the moment for those at home.  What does that mean to you?
SCOTT HEND: Well, I've got a hundred metres to the pin, wind is off the right and that's all I'm thinking about.  Instead of sitting there going, how about I hit this to three feet and all of a sudden pull it over to the bunker let.  So it's just staying with what you've got at the time and going through the process.
Q. What is that feeling like when you're on that stretch?
SCOTT HEND: Make your birdie, forget about it and go to the next one.  Just stay in the moment.  It's all about staying in the moment and trying to hit the same shots you hit on the driving range.  I know it sounds very simple and it's not easy to do, but that's what us guys playing out here try and do.
Q. When you're able to finally get some tangible evidence from that simplicity that you're talking about, staying in the moment, how much optimism does it give you moving forward in this tournament?
SCOTT HEND: Three days is a long way and this golf course can throw up anything.  I'm just going to go about doing my job and try to do the best I can.  That's all I can ask of myself.
Probably had a couple months since Crans of not playing well.  I think I've found the reason why that is.
Q. Five birdies in six holes.  Fantastic run at that stage.
SCOTT HEND: Well, the greens are pure.  If you get to a range of where you can roll it in from 20 feet, you have a chance to make the putt.
I have struggled around here in the past.  Don't know the reasons why, but it's nice to put a nice round in at the start and just go ahead for next three days.
Q. Not much of a gap but how much momentum will it mean to have a good week this week and 2018 starting next week?
SCOTT HEND: I'll take a good round any day and I'll take a good tournament, doesn't matter where it is in the season.  The way the seasons are at the moment, it's nonstop because next week we start up again in Hong Kong.  There's not really any break and try to play good when you can.  Play good when you get it because it doesn't happen every week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT