UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 11, 2016
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congrats on winning the Order of Merit.  What does this achievement mean to you?  
SCOTT HEND: It's just a culmination of a lot of years on The Asian Tour and coming so close and not getting over the line; it's finally nice to reach the top and grab the trophy.   
 Q.  How does this accomplishment rank among all of the others in your career?  
SCOTT HEND: It's quite special.  Obviously winning any Order of Merit anywhere is very special, and this will stay with me forever.   
 Q.  Can you elaborate a bit on how your 2016 journey brought you to win Asia's No. 1 title?  
SCOTT HEND: It's a bit of a funny sort of start to the year because I played in Doral, was 22-over par for four rounds and we came to Thailand and all of a sudden, the following week I was 18-under.   
So the following year was an up-and-down sort of year.  I just managed to level it off and play really solid during the middle of the year and fortunately enough for me, obviously I won a couple tournaments and I came a couple top fives.  So it was quite nice.   
 Q.  You've been playing in Asia for more than a decade now.  Do you look back at your career and this tour with some special fondness?  
SCOTT HEND: I've got some great friends out here.  We've had some great times, played great golf courses.  I've won some really nice titles.  I wouldn't take anything back.  It's been awesome.   
 Q.  And finally, you've entered a very exclusive club now.  What advice do you have for the younger generation of players who maybe look up to you and one day hope to win this trophy as well?  
SCOTT HEND: Just keep grinding, keep practicing, keep believing.  Sometimes it's tough, but you gut it out through those periods, and it all comes out the shiny side.   
 Q.  Ready for a rest?  
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, need it.  Today I was really tired.  The whole week had sort of just caught up to me a little bit today.  Yeah, it's just good to get it over and done with.   
 Q.  And happy to reflect on a year of big achievement?  
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, it's been a great year.  I only missed out on one goal and that was obviously to get Top-50 in the world and play the Masters next year.  It was a hard task; I had to come second here or I had to win.  To win against this sort of field and this golf course is a hard task, anyway.  All in all, it's a very good year.   
 Q.  And the gap in the money reflects your achievements, too, doesn't it.  
SCOTT HEND: Yeah, whether it's one dollar or whatever dollars it is, a win's a win and it's nice to be on top.   
 Q.  And the plans for next year?  Just going to sit back and work them out now?  Have you got a general idea?  
SCOTT HEND: I'm going to restart in Abu Dhabi.  I've got four weeks off.  I've got to get in the gym for four weeks and try to strengthen these old muscles and get them firing again.   
 Q.  Put in more work now?  
SCOTT HEND: A lot more work.  A lot more dedication and a lot less enjoying yourself off the golf course, shall we say.  I'm going to have a pretty big four weeks in the gym now and try to prepare for next year and push forward.   
 Q.  And the Olympics obviously was a buzz.  
SCOTT HEND: Oh, that was awesome.  That just topped off the year for me.  I mean, I've had a great year in Europe.  I've had a fantastic year, the best you can get in Asia, and to represent Australia in the Olympics.   
And for Marcus and I to be first and second on the Order of Merit, it's great for Australian golf and I think we've done the Australian golfing fraternity proud.  It was really good.  My team has helped me out all this year and we have done a great job to get where we are.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT