UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 9, 2016
Scott Hend
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Played solid again.  
SCOTT HEND: It was good.  Just not quite getting the most out of the par 5s, which is sort of what are you familiar got to do to polish off a round around here.  Otherwise, there for the weekend now and we can try and go forward?   
 Q.  How are conditions?  
SCOTT HEND: Very benign.  The probably was the greens we found a little tricky to try and read.  They are a little bit quicker than what they were yesterday afternoon, so we were not judging the break quite so well.  We just played solid.  We didn't really hole any putts the whole group.   
 Q.  Is it a case of just trying to protect yourself from not being too aggressive with some of the pins out there?  
SCOTT HEND: I think the pins on the back nine were quite tricky.  Obviously around this golf course, you don't want to short-side yourself.  It's pretty tough to sort of go at a stick to try and get it close to make a birdie putt.   
So you always seem to be having like 15-, 20-foot birdie putts, unless you want to chance your arm and make a bogey.  Obviously Thursday, Friday, you just play to get in there and go ahead on the weekend and go a bit more at them.   
 Q.  And you're right in a good position for the last two rounds.  
SCOTT HEND: Perfect.  The scoring right now, obviously 7-under is leading right now and I'm 3-under, only four behind.  Let's say they get to 10-under at the end of the day is leading.  Seven shots on this golf course on the weekend is nothing.  We've all seen guys come from way back and guys that are way forward seem to stumble a little bit because that's the way the golf course is.   
 Q.  You talked yesterday about not hitting it right in the middle of the clubface.  How was it today?  
SCOTT HEND: The timing was much better.  My drive was very poor but irons was much better.  Getting a bit more used to sort of the into the grain shots off the fairway.  All in all it's sort of shaping up pretty good.   
 Q.  Take the rest of the day off?  
SCOTT HEND: No, I've got to do a clinic.  I won't be grinding.  No grinding today.  We'll just wait till tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT