ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: GEORGIA TECH v FLORIDA STATE
December 1, 2014
Cameron Erving
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The record is the same this year and last, but does this feel like a completely different season than last year given how close the games have been?
CAMERON ERVING:   It's definitely a different feeling.   But winning is winning.   We've had a great deal of success.   That's what we pride ourselves on and that's what this program is all about. 
We win games, we know how to play situations, and we play good football. 

Q.   The difference in Jameis this year to last year, the stats certainly aren't as gaudy.   Do you see differences in him from a year ago?
CAMERON ERVING:   I've seen a lot of people come at Jameis in bad ways.   I've seen people call him everything but a child of God.   You see all the negative things, but nobody sees the good things he does. 
It's definitely something that he understands now.   He doesn't have the stats that he had last year, but he's a tremendous leader and great quarterback.   He knows how to win and play great football.   At the end of the day he does what he has to do to win games. 
As far as his stats, those stats last year were amazing.   The stats he has this year, I'm not sure exactly what they are, but they've been good enough for us to win games. 

Q.   Have you discussed as an offense ways that you can start a little stronger?   Are there areas you discussed that need improvement?
CAMERON ERVING:   There's always room for improvement in every area of the game.   We came out as an offense and coaching staff, we've all discussed coming out faster, starting better.   End of the day, we always proud ourselves on playing good football, just not shooting ourselves in the foot too much. 
I'm not saying we come out wanting to start off slow, but this team is different.   Everybody just sees the season different.   I see it different, too.   It's just a different team.   It's a different feel.   But at the end of the day we still find a way to win games.   It's amazing the resiliency of this team. 

Q.   A lot of the guys on the call have been asked about the 2012 championship game against Georgia Tech.   What are your recollections of the second half in particular?   That's when Georgia Tech really made its run. 
CAMERON ERVING:   I mean, Georgia Tech has always had a tremendous system.   They run a very difficult offense.   I mean, I understand that we have to come out and play well because Georgia Tech is playing really good football this year. 
As far as going back to that game, they played a tremendous game, competed very well in that game.   At the end of the day we made the right plays to pull that game out. 
I mean, that's all I really recollect in that game, is making the right plays when we had to make them. 

Q.   Does this Georgia Tech team seem a little different than that one in the sense obviously that year they got lucky in terms of other teams dropping out?   This year it seems to be a much tougher team coming off wins over Clemson and Georgia.   Do you see it that way, this is a much more challenging team than you faced a couple years ago?
CAMERON ERVING:   Like I said before, they've been playing really good football this year.   They've added a new dimension to their game.   They haven't been as strong passing the ball.   They can pass the ball now and have a tremendous quarterback.   Their defense does a lot of things well.   They create turnovers. 
It's all about preparation.   Have to go out and make sure we're prepared for whatever they have, what they throw at us, just continue to play ball. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT