ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: DUKE v FLORIDA STATE
December 2, 2013
Cameron Erving
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your transition to offensive line?   I know you moved there last year, but what's that process been like when you first made that move and your thoughts when you made that move?   
CAMERON ERVING:   Well, the only thing that was going through my mind really was just trusting my coaches and making sure that I was making the decision that was best for me and also the team.   I mean, in my opinion it was a great decision.   I never think about playing defense again.   I love playing offense.   I love playing ball.   It's been a great ride these last two years so far.  
   
 Q.   What was the biggest adjustment you had to make, making that switch over to the offensive line?   
CAMERON ERVING:   Becoming more of a technique and disciplined player.   Whereas on defense you can get a little undisciplined on your gaps but you can still make a play and be fine, and on offense it's a little different.   You have to be a little more disciplined, to the point, and just make sure you get what you need done because if you don't, then in the big scheme of the play, then things won't work.   
   
 Q.   You've had a great seat this year for most of Florida State's amazing offensive plays, a lot of them highlight reels.   Can you tell us if you have a favorite, if there's one that stands out to you?  
CAMERON ERVING:   You obviously can't look at the season until you play‑‑ there's not one or two specific plays that I found just amazing because our whole season has been amazing.   You know, individually no one is perfect, but as a team right now we're perfect, and that's what we're trying to continue.   I mean, I can't really pick one or two instances out.   Like you said, it's been like a bunch of highlights.   It's just been amazing.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday in the Jacobs blocking trophy announcement, you edged out your teammate Bryan Stork for the trophy or for the award.   What's that say about Florida State's offensive line, that two of you finished one and two in the voting for the best blockers in the ACC?  
CAMERON ERVING:   That just speaks a great deal about how we carry ourselves around here, how we pride ourselves on what we do.   If I would have lost to Bryan, I wouldn't‑‑ you wouldn't think twice about it, where I'm at and the position that I'm in, and vice versa, him in the same spot.   
It's great.   It's great to have us up there in the top spots in the ACC.   We definitely work hard and we definitely want to go out there and show people that we can play ball, too.   It's a great honor, great honor, and I just feel so blessed to have it right now.   
   
 Q.   Talk about what it's like being an offensive line at practice and going up with Timmy Jernigan on the offense with you?  
CAMERON ERVING:   Being an offensive lineman in our practice, you get to go against the best talent every day.   Me personally I don't really go up a lot against Timmy.   He's an inside guy, I'm an outside guy, but he's a great player.   He's a great leader, has a great mentality and good attitude towards people at practice.   We all work each other, and it's just fun to go out there and just compete every day in practice, knowing that you might not face anything that's better in the games, but just preparing and getting your mind ready for everything that you're going to face that week.   
   
 Q.   Do you see how difficult it is on other offensive lines when you face that entire defensive front?   What are you thinking when you're on the sideline during games and you're seeing them go and you're seeing other offensive lines trying to block them?  
CAMERON ERVING:   Oh, man, I love seeing those guys have success.   I'm like, man, they've got a long day ahead of them.   First off, I know this all the time.   Anybody who plays our defense has a long day ahead of them.   But after going against these guys, they'll get you some, we win some, we lose some, but it doesn't seem as lopsided as it does in the game.   I mean, that's a good thing.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT