AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2005
Chris Chandler
Trent Dilfer
Grant Fuhr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TRENT DILFER:  We're just trying to figure out this format still.
Q.  Tell us about your round today.
TRENT DILFER:  Hit the ball pretty solid.  Haven't played a lot of golf this year, so was really unsure of what it would be like.  I've been playing pretty well lately, especially hitting the ball solid.

And started on 10.  Hit a couple solid shots.  Really didn't hit a bad shot until I got to 14 down the hill, shoved it right, got a great break.  Had a shot to the green, chunked a wedge into the bunker, and holed it out of the bunker.  That kind of, you know, got me going a little bit.

15, hit two really good shots in there about six, seven feet and missed the putt.  Didn't let it bother me.

Went to 16 and hit a really bad 3 wood for my second shot and got stuck in the bunker about 70 yards from the pin.  Poor execution, chunked it, hit a good chip up to about eight feet, missed it.

3 putt on 17.

Made birdie on 18.  Make a good putt there.

Golly, it was    you can kill me all you want; they asked.  And the front nine really was just a matter, I think I hit every fairway and green on the front nine and had two 3 putts.  Those were my bogeys.

So really a good ball striking day and made some good putts but hit a lot of really bad short putts, some that went in and some that missed.  For me to have any chance whatsoever, I need to fix my short putting stroke.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  Not like you.
TRENT DILFER:  Not like me.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  I started the day, I put it in about a half inch and walked behind the ball and looked at my target on the first hole and then I stood    oh, we're not going to go into that detail, are we?

I had six birdies, five bogeys.  No complaints.  I hit it good.  You know, hit it in the water on 1, made bogey, and other than that, I felt real good about everything I did.  Could have made some, could have missed some more, but all in all, I've got in complaints at all.  Fun day.

GRANT FUHR:  Hit it good most the day.  Didn't putt so good the first four or five holes.  3 putted 1 for bogey.  3 putted 4 for a par, and other than that, made a couple of birdies on the back side.  I think I hit 15 greens, so pretty solid ball striking day.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  I'll say.
TRENT DILFER:  So I went way too in depth?  I thought they wanted the hole by hole.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  They did until you really got into it and we had to shorten ours up.
TRENT DILFER:  Sorry.
Q.  We're out of time.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  You holed it out of the bunker for par on 14?
TRENT DILFER:  For birdie.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  I made birdie there but it's tradish.
TRENT DILFER:  Mine was not traditional.
Q.  How far was that shot?
TRENT DILFER:  I was in the back part of the bunker, so I had to carry the whole bunker.  It was probably 20 yards.
Q.  This is in recent years become largely a two man kind of battle on Sunday.  Have you guys talked about that, and are you going to get together and team up on these guys?

CHRIS CHANDLER:  We haven't really I talked about it.  But I think the past few years, not necessarily this golf tournament, but other ones, Mario's and Stan Humphrey's and a lot of other tournaments we play in, a lot more guys are playing a lot better.  And it's probably not what it was five, seven years ago for Rick, just kind of show up and know he was going to run everybody over.  Now, he still can, but it's a little tougher for him to just run away with things.

Guys have I think gotten better and Rick's definitely playing well.  But I think overall, I think you would agree, and probably Grant would, too, you get more comfortable playing in these tournaments, and work on your game a little bit more and next thing you know, at least you give these guys a run for their money.
Q.  So since you're not playing football anymore, is that what your goals are, to stick to this?

CHRIS CHANDLER:  Well, it's not official yet, 99.9 percent retired right now.
TRENT DILFER:  That means he'll be playing next year.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  I'm going to wait.  I turn 40 October 12.  I'm going to wait until I turn 40 to entertain any offers.  Because I want to get my    I want to watch my daughters play soccer this year.  Never have done that.
Q.  So Grant, lone hockey guy up there, what do you think?  Have you got a shot?

GRANT FUHR:  You never know.  If I can hit it the same way for another two days, maybe get some putts to fall, then you have a chance.
Q.  Did you guys make any wagers this week?

CHRIS CHANDLER:  A made a whole bunch of wagers, two nights ago, was it?
TRENT DILFER:  Some better than others.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  To sum it up, wounded would be the best way to say what happened.  That's the only wagers I made.
TRENT DILFER:  I had very low expectations.  Honestly, I think I had 11 rounds of golf the entire year in before this tournament, and I had hit balls maybe four or five times.  So I'm excited to see how I hold up as the pressure gets bigger through the weekend.  I've sat here on Friday five or six times with the lead or been up top and crumbled on the weekend.

I'm just excited about the challenge.  You know, I think the more you do this, and I don't play nearly as many tournaments as I used to, but the more you do it, the more you test yourself, and you learn a lot about yourself.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  It's fun.
TRENT DILFER:  It's fun.  There's nothing wrong with failing if you learn from it, and I've failed out here plenty.  I'm excited to see how I'll hold up under pressure.  I'm swinging as well as I've ever swung the golf club, so we'll see if that holds up.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  Just have all of us play together tomorrow.
TRENT DILFER:  Yeah, this would be a good threesome.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  That's what I'd like to have happen,  (coughing), Milthorpe.
TRENT DILFER:  You don't have to show us on TV, either, just let us go do our thing.  We don't care.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  Put Barkley in front of us, the whole deal, just let us play together.
TRENT DILFER:  What was asked earlier, I do have an opinion on it, Rhoden/Quinn thing.  The limited time I've been out on this tour the last few years, it is obvious the competitive nature of these guys have taken over, and they have said, I'm sick and tired of hearing that Dan Quinn is better than me and Rick Rhoden is better than me; I'm going work on my game more and take it more serious.  The guy next to me is going to be best player out here when he starts doing it full time.  A lot of us have been playing other sports.

There are some guys out here that can really play golf, but it has not been their focus for that long.  And as it becomes their focus and which a competitive nature takes over day in and day out on the golf course, the quality of this tournament will get better, the quality of the Tour will get better.  And you're going to see guys go and play in mini tour events and taking some sponsor exemptions and probably playing out there on the PGA TOUR because there are guys, especially Chris, that their games can hold up like that.
Q.  Chris, there is a little tribute that afternoon for John Brodie.  Tell us a little bit how John is doing.

CHRIS CHANDLER:  He's really doing good.  Not really being able to play any golf, and he's probably not speaking as well as we all want him to, but he's in as good a mood and as happy as he ever has been.  He spends a lot of time playing with the girls and all his grandkids, and he never did that before.  So it's kind of a new phase of his life.

I don't know if you've heard him out there, if you just listen at all, all he's doing is laughing.  He's just having a great time.  He's really doing    he's really doing good.

To honor him this week is something pretty special.  I just wish the NFL would do what they should have done a while ago and honored him in the Hall of Fame as well.
TRENT DILFER:  Amen.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT