AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Chris Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Chris, thanks for coming up.   We appreciate it.   24 points today, puts you in third place by yourself. 
CHRIS CHANDLER:   Can we talk about the first 14 holes only?   (Laughter).

Q.   Tell us about your round today. 
CHRIS CHANDLER:   It was great, really good start to finish.   Drove the ball really, really well.   Hit a great drive on 6, which was my, what, 15th hole, kind of got in between clubs and got lazy on a wedge and chunked it into the water.
I was at 26 points at that point.   I'm like going I could get 35.   I started getting ahead of myself and just made a poor club selection, and on top of that, even a worse swing. 
And it's funny, when something like that happens, how mentally you kind of just, the red wire touches the green wire and you can't even feel your hands anymore.
But I hung in there and kind of scratched it in.   But I played really well.   Drove the ball really well.   Left a handful of putts out there but I also made a couple of long ones. 
My best shot of the day, the 5‑iron on 4 for three feet for eagle, I have no complaints.   It was a fun round, and I figured I only ever get invited back is if I win it.   I better win this thing.

Q.   Speaking of that, you had a pretty solid record here.   In 2007 you won this; you've had seven top 12s in the years you've been here.   And you know this course pretty well. 
CHRIS CHANDLER:   It was kind of nice.   I didn't get in until last Thursday.   Just came out and played 11 holes with Modano.   I didn't have to play in the Pro‑Am on Thursday.   I just came out and hit balls.
And I know the course well enough.   Incredibly good green reading caddie in Tina.   Just met her this morning and we had a great time.   And out here, as long as you hit the ball reasonably well, it just kind of comes down to putting.
And I had some like 15‑footers downhill that I just couldn't get after it like 8‑, 10‑footers and I just left them a little short.   But I have no complaints.   I played really well and it was super fun.
And I just can't wait for tomorrow.

Q.   If you could just address a little bit‑‑ Mark Rypien obviously won the first one; 10 of the next 11 years he didn't sniff a top 10.   Second last year.   Leading again.   It's been 23 years.   Are you surprised?   Are you shocked to see‑‑
CHRIS CHANDLER:   Not one bit.   First of all, Ryp is one of my all‑time favorite guys on the planet.   And I know how well he can play. 
And I love seeing him play well and it's going to be super fun tomorrow to play with him.   And I bet he had 27 points.   I bet he probably could have had 32 or 33.   He's a real solid player out here.
This course lends itself to hitting cut shots.   And Ryp has a gorgeous power fade and he just hits it good.   And he can putt and really happy to see him play well.   Even more happy that I get to play with him tomorrow.

Q.   What happened on No. 8?   You doubled that one. 
CHRIS CHANDLER:   I hit driver on every hole.   And so 8 and 9‑‑ well, now it's 1.   You have to really kind of cut it.   And I just kind of overcooked it on 8 and hit a tree and kicked a little right into, I don't know what this stuff is, but it was in literally a footprint hole. 
And I swung with all my might and it rolled out about five feet left.   And now I'm like going I still don't have a shot.   I tried to thread it through the trees.   Last thing I remember I was trying to hole out a 52‑yarder for bogey. 
So I just kind of overcooked the driver a little bit.   But for all the years, on 8 and 9 when I've tried to lay up, they're tough layups for me.   I just try to hit bomb driver and get as close as I can.   Some years it's better than others, but not so much today.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT