AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2007
Chris Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL WEIDINGER:  Two days in a row in the media room. 
 CHRIS CHANDLER:  First time with everything.  How about winning tomorrow. 

 Q.  Tell us about your round and the highs and lows. 
 CHRIS CHANDLER:  Really nothing bad happened.  Very similar to yesterday.  I played the front side a little better and shot 33 on the back again.  You know, everybody is going to say they should have and could have made some putts, but I had a very similar day.  I had a couple that horseshoed back at me and things like that.  You know, hit the ball good, and you know, I just putted solid.  Just waiting for a really, really good putting day, hopefully tomorrow. 

 Q.  Taking a look at the leaderboard, somebody you might recognize vaulted to the top.  Does that concern you? 
 CHRIS CHANDLER:  No.  You always expect Rick to be up at the top, near the top, always there, really solid.  Everybody knows that. 
 In a way it's kind of nice you have to go out and probably win the tournament.  He's never going to lay down, so you have to go out and play, you know, a really, really good round of golf to probably beat him.  So that kind of makes it fun. 

 Q.  What are the crowds like out there this year?  Have you noticed any difference? 
 CHRIS CHANDLER:  I've always thought the crowds have been great.  I love on 17, I love all the interaction with all the crowd.  You know, being -- football background our used to going to places and having a lot of noise and people booing and you saying all kind of things.  These people are just loud and friendly and on your side. 
 So I think it's a great, fun thing.  It's probably similar in a smaller way to Phoenix on 16, the par 3 there.  It's kind of our version of that I guess. 
 But they have always been great.  They have always been respectful.  They are out here to have fun just like we are.  You know, this is not any sort of real profession for any of us, and I think they should be able to go out and have the best time they can, and that's all we try to do. 

 Q.  This is the third year of the John Brody award.  Rick, as you know, was the recipient this year.  John is looking pretty good and how is he doing overall? 
 CHRIS CHANDLER:  Better and better.  Yeah, to see where he has come from, from the night of the stroke to where he is now, is a miracle. 
 After the stroke, they thought he wasn't going to live.  Then they said if he lives, he's going to be a vegetable.  Well, he's not a vegetable; then he'll never walk.  He just keeps beating all of the barriers they are putting up for him.  He can kind of swing the golf club a little bit again.  He's constantly getting a little bit better.  He's saying a few more words, and every time I see him.  And it's kind of baby steps but J.B. is tough as nails.  He's not going to cave into this.  He's going to beat it. 

 Q.  Sounds like he would be a good candidate for NFL Hall of Fame? 
 CHRIS CHANDLER:  Well, it should have happened a long time ago, you know.  That's just a no-brainer.  We could spend an hour, two hours talking on that. 
 He's the face of the San Francisco 49ers, and a lot of guys he played with, that were good players, are in the Hall of Fame.  And John should be there without a doubt, and you can probably look into it and see the reasons why, and it's a couple certain people involved in this whole thing.  And it's a shame that his football skills are not the reason.  You know, it's due to other outside influences.  J.B. should have been in there 20 years ago. 
 But, hopefully, hopefully he will.  That's what we all want. 

 Q.  What is your wife's name again? 
 CHRIS CHANDLER:  My wife's name is Diane.  She's the third, three of five.  So I've got the middle child.  She's awesome. 
 (Looking at journalist) Baltimore Colts, the old school hat, I like it.  You know who is out here is Matt Bouza.  He used to be a receiver when they were in Baltimore.  When I was a rookie at Indianapolis, when I met Matt.  But he was actually in Baltimore. 

 Q.  What's he doing out here? 
 CHRIS CHANDLER:  They live in the Bay Area.  He went to Calc.  Great friends of ours and they come up every year.  He's spent a lot of time in Baltimore; Frank "Cush".  I like the hat.  Cool hat. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT