ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2011
Matthew NIxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on a decent day out there?  
 MATTHEW NIXON: Yeah, it's nice to be back in contention, or make a cut. It's been five cuts in a row I've missed. So I found it quite tough the last couple of weeks playing a lot of golf and to make the transition over from amateur to professional, a little bit tricky, managing my time.   
 I knew I wasn't playing my best so I spent the last two weeks having missed the cut going away and working with had I coach, so it's nice to see that all of the hard work over the last couple of weeks is paying off and nice to shoot under par and make a cut.   
 I knew that I wasn't playing well of late, and I knew that I needed to do some practise, but was finding time, and missing cuts, need to make the time. Worked on real simple things, trying to make it simple again. I was complicating it, a few negative thoughts, having missed a few cuts. But it was just a case of just getting a bit of confidence back and I know that I can play the game, so just putting it all together and that's what I managed to do the last two days.  
  
  Q. The 18th was tricky obviously?  
 MATTHEW NIXON: Yeah, the last four holes are a bit twitchy, but made two birdies on 15 and 16, which was nice. Just a bad swing for my third shot on 18. But in the end it was a good 6, that's why I had to get out of there. I was in the hazard off the drive in the rough and chipped it outside, and then I had a wedge in and hit that in the water and then hit another wedge to about four foot and tapped it in, so a good six in the end.  
  
  Q. You put it behind you pretty well, though.   
 MATTHEW NIXON: Yeah, exactly, I knew I was playing well on the front nine and there are some chances out there and played solid coming in.   
  
  Q. Thoughts for the weekend?   
 MATTHEW NIXON: Just got to go out there and enjoy it. That's the main thing I said to my sort of coach, dad, manager; I have not really been enjoying my golf from missing cuts and playing badly and stuff and I just said to myself, let's just go out and have fun. How many people get the opportunity to play on The European Tour for a year, and you've just got to make the most of it. So that's what I'm trying to do, go out and enjoy myself and if I do well, I do, and if I don't, I don't.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT