CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MIAMI VS WISCONSIN
December 28, 2017
Thomas Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I think I read some stuff where you were asked about Wisconsin's personnel.  I know it's been a while since you've been there, but what they do defensively, do you see similarities in what they try to do, different coordinators, different personnel?
THOMAS BROWN: Yeah, I think it's a different philosophy but kind of I would say similar mentality.  They're always going to be big and physical.  It's going to be tough to run the ball against them.  They're really simplistic in ways because they can be.  So it's going to be a tough challenge for us starting up front, and we just have to make sure we take advantage of opportunities.
Q. How have you been able to overcome some of the personnel losses on your side of the ball?
THOMAS BROWN: Just obviously trying to get more guys ready.  That's why you obviously recruit guys, to have some depth and get some guys ready to go.  Obviously we lost some big-time playmakers.  Obviously starting with Mark Walton was our best player by far, voted MVP of our team last year, and that's kind of what he had from a leadership standpoint was a huge loss for us.  But a phenomenal job by Travis Homer kind of getting ready and trying to pick up that role, also, with some other guys like Deejay Dallas, who's a running back, as well.  But obviously Chris is a huge loss for us, as well, because he played so much for us at so many different roles.  Even last year when David and Njoku was kind of getting a lot of attention, Chris didn't come off the field just so much from a point of attack, tight end, blocking standpoint, even backside from a receiving game standpoint.  Just trying to get guys behind him who can step up and make more plays.
Q. After Clemson, is there an increased emphasis on setting a tone early?
THOMAS BROWN: I mean, you know, that's the goal every single game, doesn't matter what game we're going into, doesn't matter what the result was the previous game.  To start fast, try to extend it in the middle quarters and try to finish strong.  I don't think it's changed any at all with that loss.
Q. You mentioned the job Travis has done.  Can you speak about what that says about the depth that you guys have at running back and what he brings to this program?
THOMAS BROWN: Yeah, I mean, we've obviously added some more guys that's going to be huge for us down the road, but you can never have enough, I would say, skill players, period, especially from a running back standpoint, guys get banged up so easily.  But I just think the mentality of guys we have, guys that come out and compete every day, try and get better, has helped us out a bunch.
Q. You guys have talked about how your schedule was shaken up by the hurricane and everything.  Could you tell you guys were getting maybe physically worn down late and mentally?
THOMAS BROWN: I mean, I think there was some of that, but also it's a long stretch of back-to-back games, physical football games.  Like you said, a couple guys going down for us.  If you named three guys that we couldn't lose before the season started, it would be those three guys, and those guys obviously went down for us.  Not making excuses, but it's reality.  Obviously it affects your team.  But I think we've done a really good job of trying to get guys better, and obviously this bowl appears to be good for us to try to get some guys more reps and get ready to go.
Q. What have you seen from DJ this season?
THOMAS BROWN: Yeah, just maturity and growth.  He's a very versatile football player.  Obviously started out just playing solely receiver.  There was a bunch of talk when he got here about what he would play, would it be offense or defense or receiver or running back, but obviously a very competitive football player.  Did a really good job of taking coaching and obviously it's kind of hard to make a switch from receiver to tailback.  Just got to learn how to be better in pass protection, tends to be more physical with the ball in his hands, but he is a football player.  He can make plays.
Q. What do you envision for his future?  Do you like him being able to move around?
THOMAS BROWN: Absolutely.  I think being able to do both.  I think being able to be creative and kind of disguise some things we do offensively and make it harder for defenders to be able to kind of figure out what we're going to do from a run game standpoint, even pass game-wise, flex him out in the backfield, motion him out and bring him back in.  Got to get a little creative with that stuff.
Q. I think you were at Wisconsin about a week after Paul Chryst took over.  What kind of insight are you able to give the team on them, if anything?
THOMAS BROWN: Not much.  Like I said, I was only there for a couple weeks and I was obviously very thankful for him and his staff to retain me and keep me there at Wisconsin before leaving to go to Georgia.  I have great respect for him and the way he runs his program.  Obviously I met with him a little bit before I left, and he's a great offensive mind and has a vision for that program, but a guy who loves Wisconsin, knows what Wisconsin is all about, so it'll be a tough match-up for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT