NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLYERS v LIGHTNING
May 8, 2004
Robert Esche
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Were you encouraged by the fact it looks like they might be protecting the goaltenders in this series? 
 ROBERT ESCHE:  I don't know.  We went two rounds and there is a lot of bumping out there.  I think it's something they have done a good job the whole playoffs.  Obviously, I don't think that should have been the right call, but other than that, I think they have been doing a real good job. 
 Q.  Just wanted to get your view of that last goal, kind of bounced off the backboards and back out to the front; were you aware of what they were doing there and what was the situation on that goal? 
 ROBERT ESCHE:  Yeah, it looked like that's something they were trying to do, I don't know if it was or wasn't, only they know.  But it was a good play and the guy wound up with a good shot and it was  -- put the rebound as much toward the corner as much as I could and there just happened to be a guy going to the same area. 
 Q.  On the second goal, it looked like your guy's stick came through flying at you; did that distract you at all?  Did you see that coming? 
 ROBERT ESCHE:  The second period, you're talking about?  No, that was just a broken play.  We played a play towards center ice, they picked it off and happened to bounce around off shin pads and feet.  It's stuff that's going to happen, too.  There's other guys open on the side of the net and just put it in. 
 Q.  I know goalies don't skate around as much as for wards, but did you notice the ice conditions and do they affect the way you play? 
 ROBERT ESCHE:  I don't know.  I don't think too many goalies anymore are out skating around outside the crease.  I know Nik plays similar to the way I do, and even the other goalies that I face, you're kind of glued no matter what.  I didn't notice it, I don't know if the forwards noticed it.  I don't think it bothered either team but I didn't notice.  For me the puck was bouncing good, I have no complaints about the ice. 
 Q.  Were you discouraged and what's the focus for Monday night? 
 ROBERT ESCHE:  We didn't come in here by no stretch of the imagination assuming to go four games and I don't think they did either.  We're excited about playing the next game on Monday night and that's the way you look at it.  I don't think anybody is happy about losing the first game, whenever you lose.  But on the same hand, you can't get too high or too low at any point in the series. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT