NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 24, 2010
Jason Richardson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   JASON RICHARDSON: Yeah, definitely. We went out there, played aggressive. We grinded it out. We dealt with all the loose balls. That's the type of team we've got to be. 
 The Lakers are too good. We can't take any play off against them. We've got to do whatever it takes to win a game.

 Q. Did things open up a little when Bynum is on the bench for you guys?
 JASON RICHARDSON: Yeah, it is. Different size. Got the ball. That was good for us. First two games we settled for jump shots a little bit more. But last night he was just really aggressive, getting to the basket, getting those guys in foul trouble. And opening up the lane for everybody. Steve was able to get in there, penetrate for easy baskets. Grant, myself and, of course, Amar'e. Just dominated the game.

 Q. Bynum's injury, the scouting report, conscious of the fact he's a little --
 JASON RICHARDSON: You know what, I totally forget that he was a little limited like that. But guys still took it upon ourselves. That wasn't our game plan. It was just be aggressive. And we have to be like that, we need everybody on the team to be aggressive like that.

 Q. Against the zone, do you like that, playing zone. Some guys, straight up? 
 JASON RICHARDSON: I mean, in certain situations, you know, we're kind of matched by the Lakers and their size, play some zone to slow them up, get the ball out of certain guys' hands, and Kobe, Pau's hands. And take away the onus. In a situation, like to play. But any other situation, I love to play --

 Q. Robin was (indiscernible)?
 JASON RICHARDSON: Yeah, we hate the zone. Because it's somewhat -- a lot of people look at it as (indiscernible) we can't play defense. So -- but that does help us to win games, we'll be the girly for the series.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 JASON RICHARDSON: I don't know. I mean, it was successful in one game. It might not be successful in another. That's the part of the playoffs. You have to adjust. So if they're picking us apart in the zone, about to get out there and play man. So we'll go play a little bit of zone because we were successful, and hopefully it will work again.

 Q. (Question about the shots)?
 JASON RICHARDSON: Just keep shooting. You're a shooter. That's your job. Don't worry about anything else, don't worry about misses. Don't worry about anything. Shoot the ball. Don't hesitate. Be confident in yourself. I talk to him every day. He's going to have a great game for us. It's just a matter of time. He knows it and everybody knows it. He'll hit that one shot and he'll get out of it.

 Q. Where is he at mentally right now?
 JASON RICHARDSON: As a shooter, when you go through something like this, you're out of it right now. It's like you can't make those shots. We're doing everything we can to encourage him. He's a big part of our success. We need him to hit shots. We're not going to add pressure to him. It can be any game now.

 Q. When a player is in a drought that long, are you at the point where you don't want to say too much because you don't want it to be in his head?
 JASON RICHARDSON: Yeah, it is , in a sense it is. Us shooters, kind of emotional like that, sensitive about stuff like that. 
 So you don't really want to say too many things to him. You want to kind of help him get out of his own funk. At the same time don't put any pressure on him. We know the pressure on him, on shooting percentage. 
 But we feel confident in him. And every time he's open, he wants to shoot the ball. That's what he does best. That's what makes him successful on the court. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT