U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 2, 2016
Leah Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congrats.
LEAH SMITH: Thank you.
Q. How did you feel about your swim?
LEAH SMITH: I'm pretty happy with it, because I went into this meet with an 8:24, so I dropped four seconds off my best time, but would have loved to have been 8:20.
Q. How tough is it with somebody so far ahead and everybody else a decent amount behind?
LEAH SMITH: Sometimes it's tough, because you obviously want to be racing the person who is leading, but then you can get caught up in racing people that are behind you.  I mean, this meet I've just been trying to inch a little bit closer to racing the leader, so I'd just say it's helpful to get faster to race those people.
Q. (No microphone.)
LEAH SMITH: I mean, it does a lot for my confidence, especially because I didn't swim any individual events at Worlds last summer, and I had hoped to, so swimming well here just gives me the confidence that I can be a medal contender, which is what the US needs.
Q. You had such a great NCAA meet.  Is it easier as a distance swimmer to make the long course changeover?
LEAH SMITH: Yeah, I definitely like the mile better long course -- or the mile better short course than the mile long course.  I think it just depends on who you are, like if turns help you out and if they don't.  I mean, being in the (Away from mic.)  And I know they weren't great.  Yeah, I think it helps because I can churn out pretty hard long course workouts.
Q. (No microphone.)
LEAH SMITH: Um, well, my coaches were pretty happy with me because they basically said that I didn't race to get second; I raced to win it, and even though I wasn't going in there thinking I'm definitely going to be here, I don't want to go into a race accepting one position or the other.
I think that's just kinda the way I've been since I was little, though.  That's just how I race.
Q. Were you that way tonight?
LEAH SMITH: Yeah, my times in prelims weren't anywhere near hers, so I was just hoping to close the gap a little bit more and didn't really do that, but I wasn't just going to go into the race like -- what I really did not want to do was be like, I already made the team, I don't care about this one, because I really do care about it.
Q. (No microphone.)
LEAH SMITH: I would say I think she swims her races similar to the way I swim them, like tries to take it out and sees what she has, and I think that's definitely one of her strengths.  It can make the rest of the competitors pretty worried on the front half if you're taking it out, so I think that's probably one of her best strengths, and I think everybody tries to do that, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT