CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 11, 2010
Chris Tidland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Chris Tidland, talk to Brian Katrek a little bit about your round. You got the low score on the Mag this morning.   
  
  Q. Indeed, Chris, that is a great score, 5-under par 67, and we know this is the tougher of the two golf courses. How good does that feel?  
 CHRIS TIDLAND: It feels great. I played nice. I hit some nice shots, and then I made some great putts. I made a few from off the green and made a few 30-footers, which you know, you don't expect, but out here it's a long golf course, playing long. It's wet. And you know, I had to do that today.  
  
  Q. What is it like as a player when you've got one of these multiple-course formats where you know you've drawn the tougher of the two? How do you buckle down? Do you even look at leaderboards? And then you start playing well. How do you handle that?  
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Yeah, I'm not a leaderboard watcher anyways. Usually my game keeps my full attention. I don't need anything else getting in there.  
 And I mean I don't think The Palm is necessarily easy. There's some spots out there you gotta be careful. The par-5s are a little bit easier, but you know, they're the same grass. Greens are perfect on both courses, you know, so if you're hitting it good, you have some scoring opportunities.  
  
  Q. Your position on the Money List, you have a place to play next year. How much are you thinking about that this week?  
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Well, I'm trying not to. It's hard, you know, you have so much down time, especially this week. You know, first few days it takes a while out here. Playing with a good buddy, Steve Wheatcroft; and his caddy, Brandon and I are tight, too, so that helps and kind of takes your mind off of it a little bit.  
  
  Q. There's another Oklahoma State guy out here at the top of this leaderboard, also wearing all black. He's also a snappy dresser. Tell me you guys didn't have a phone conversation.   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Actually we didn't. But I would like to be like him. I'd try to do anything I can to be more like him. He's a stud.   
 I'm a huge Rickie Fowler fan, and you know, great for the game and just an incredible player.  
  
  Q. At this pace we could see both outfits matched up on the weekend. We'll see. Good luck, Chris. Thanks for your time.   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT