FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2010
Chris Tidland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Pretty good day today. 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Yeah, I played really good today, hit some really good shots and made a few mistakes and kind of had to take my medicine, missed it on a few spots that were just dead, chip it to the center of the green, two-putt for bogey, had to do that a couple times. But then hit some really nice shots and converted the putts to kind of get me back.

 Q. Do you kind of come out here with the attitude that on this hard a golf course I just need to hang in here?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: I mean, you can't really do that out here because it can beat you up in a hurry. You know, I was trying to be aggressive in the spots that I felt like I could be and then conservative other places and try to do some damage with the putter. I've been putting well this week, and so basically getting it on the greens out here is kind of my goal, and we'll go from there.

 Q. How did you play the par-5s today?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: I birdied one of them. No, I birdied two of them. I birdied 6 and I birdied 13. So played them a little bit better. They were kind of still a struggle. They weren't easy birdies.

 Q. A few shots out of the lead even after a 71. 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Yeah, I feel good about -- I definitely feel better about how I played today. I drove it really nice and missed some fairways, but they were usually in the first cut, and yesterday was a little bit wild but I got away with it. Today was a little bit more kind of down the middle. 

 Q. Do you think this round prepared you for the next two here?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Well, sure. Any time you get to see the course again, it's good. I think the weather is supposed to stay like this, and I'm looking forward to the week.

 Q. What was your last bogey?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: I bogeyed No. 7. I hit 3-iron in there and put it in the bunker, and it was dead in there, so I kind of chipped it to 20 feet and tried to make it and made an awkward bogey.

 Q. How is the family doing?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: They're doing good. They're playing a lot of games and hanging out. I'm sure they'll be sick of each other here in a few days.

 Q. How many friends and family were here today?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Just a few friends from high school, and then I think my dad and mom are coming back on Sunday. They're up north for some stuff. 

 Q. You don't see them very often?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: No, my wife has kind of kept in touch through Facebook. My wife and I being from the same spot, she kind of keeps in touch with people more than me so I don't have to do that. But it's fun to get to see some people again.

 Q. Any people that play on the golf team with you?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: I think there's one coming tomorrow.

 Q. Who's that?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: His name is John Gauphin, and he usually comes. I expect for him to come sometime.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT