NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2009
Chris Tidland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ: We welcome Chris Tidland in, Chris with a 3-under par 68 to finish at 6-under par. Not the finish you wanted there at 18 with a bogey, but maybe just talk about the rest of the day and conditions. 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: I thought I played pretty tough today. The wind was blowing, there was a lot of crosswind, so it was hard to hit fairways. I didn't hit many fairways, especially starting out. I got a few fortunate lies where I could get them on the green and got off to a little bit better start than I probably should have. I saved some shots and then kind of in the middle of the round I started playing nice. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: What turned it around for you? 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Just kind of hanging in there. My swing, my timing wasn't great and rhythm, so I just kind of kept hanging in there, and good pars and a few birdies allows you to be a little bit more patient. 

 Q. Did you see Rickie up there when you looked at the leaderboard?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Yeah, I saw him early. That was exciting. He's one of my good friends. I play with him every day in Stillwater. That was great. He's a great player. So I was excited for him. 

 Q. So you're not the only Oklahoma State player that this course agrees with; you've got Morgan Hoffman up there, too. 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Yeah, and we've won three national championships here. It's a nice place for Cowboys.

 Q. Three national championships here?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Uh-huh, yeah. Willy won one and Tway and Brian Watts. He won individually. 

 Q. It looked from that shot that I saw you had coming out of the bunker at 18 that despite all the water that this course has taken on that the greens looked like they were getting a little slick towards the end of the day because you couldn't hold that ball. 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: That green was firmer. 17 and 18 were firmer than any of the other greens. They were out there in the sun getting baked. I expect tomorrow if there's no rain and the wind keeps up, they should dry out good. 

 Q. About how far did you have coming back for your par at 18?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: 15 feet. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Can you talk about the par that turned out to be a par with the penalty stroke today? 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Yeah, it was on No. 12. I hit a good drive and a really nice hybrid just behind the hole about 20 feet, left the putt about three feet short, and I was taking my coin out of my pocket to mark the ball, and it fell out of my hand, hit the ball and moved it an inch. 
 So I called an official, he said it's a one-shot penalty, move it back. So I did that, and then made it for par instead of birdie. 

 Q. Had that ever happened to you before?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: No, I've never seen it happen. I've heard of it happening, but yeah, kind of unfortunate. I was playing real good. It kind of stalled me out a little bit. I had just made a great birdie on 11, one of the hardest holes out here, and hit two of my best shots of the tournament on 12, and then that happens. 
 But I made a nice putt. I kind of was -- I kept my composure good, hit a nice putt, and I played solid the rest of the way. 

 Q. So have you changed your routine now of when you're going to take your coin out of your pocket?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: No, no, just kind of a fluke thing. I hope that it never happens again. If it does, I'll at least know what to do. I won't have to call a rules official. 
 Yeah, unfortunate, but I'm still playing good.

 Q. How far did it move your ball?
 CHRIS TIDLAND: An inch.

 Q. And then you've got to --
 CHRIS TIDLAND: You've got to move it back. If I would have been right next to the ball -- because I was a foot away from it. If I had been right next to it and hit it, then I guess it's not a penalty. But they said I wasn't close enough, I guess. I don't really understand. 

 Q. Playing with Rickie as often as you do, can you talk a little bit about his game and why you're probably not surprised to see him where he is on the leaderboard? 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Well, he's a great player, hits it terrific, great iron player, and this course you have to be good -- you've got to hit good iron shots. He's probably the most confident person I've ever been around. He knows he's good. He's a great kid, but he's also very confident in what he's doing, and I love that. I love being around him. I think it's helped my career and it's pushed me. When I've got a kid that beats my brains in a lot in Stillwater, that's pushed me to practice harder and gotten me more hungry. 

 Q. Do you play amateurs for money, or do you wait until he turns pro before you start taking money --
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Oh, I don't know if I could say. We've exchanged a few dollars. We don't play for much, but it's more for drinks up at Carson Creek or something, a Coke. But I think I've probably bought him a drink more than he's bought me a drink. 

 Q. Anything particularly good the first two days for you? 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: My irons have been good. I've hit a lot of greens, controlled my ball real well in the wind, being able to draw it back in left to right and cut it back in right to left. I've done that real well all week.

 Q. Any big putts today? 
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Not really. No. 4, I made a nice about a six-eight-footer for par. I kind of butchered that hole, and that would have been kind of unfortunate to make a bogey there. That kind of kept my round going. 
 Then I made a nice about a 20-footer on 11 after a good 3-iron in there. That was my longest putt of the day. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Play well this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT