ALBERTSONS BOISE OPEN PRESENTED BY KRAFT
September 14, 2008
Chris Tidland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Just talk about the day. I know it's been an emotional day for you. But when you started out with a share of the lead, what were your thoughts about what you needed to do, and did you have a number in mind?   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: No, I did not have a number in mind. I knew I needed to get off to a good start. Had some birdie holes starting out. I just wanted to play solid starting out.   
 I hit some nice shots, made some good putts and kind of got everything settled, and it kind of continued.  
  
  Q. You figured though that you were going to need a lot of birdies today?   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Oh, sure. It's perfect weather. The course is in nice shape. The greens are perfect. You know, a lot of good players chasing me. I knew I needed to try to keep the pedal down as much as I could.  
  
  Q. How were the nerves?   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: I was nervous all day. But, you know, I was also very confident. I felt great over the ball. I putted probably the best I ever have for a week. So I knew if I just got the ball on the green, I was going to do pretty well.   
  
  Q. You had a solid week hitting fairways and hitting greens. It seemed like it all came together?  
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Yeah, exactly. You know, it's kind of rare when it does. You know, it's usually one thing's working and another thing isn't. Especially this week, it really all came together on the last pretty much 27 holes. You know, I hit it beautiful and putted great.  
  
  Q. Did you feel a week like this coming?   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: You know, it's been close some weeks, and then other weeks it's been a long ways away. It's been a pretty inconsistent year.   
 So, you know, not really. I didn't -- if you had told me I was going to win this week after I got off the green in Salt Lake last week after playing lousy, I would have thought you were crazy.   
 But now, you know, it's a funny game. I feel great now and very confident.   
  
  Q. You had mentioned yesterday that out here one or two weeks can turn a bad year in a great year.   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Oh, yeah, and same thing on the PGA TOUR. I mean, you really -- you have, you know, it's basically a month where you make most of your money unless you're Tiger Woods and play good every week. But a lot of us aren't like that.   
 So this has turned pretty lousy year into a good year and potentially to be a great year.  
  
  Q. What is the feeling like when you make that putt at 18?   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Oh, it's hard to describe. It hasn't really sunk in yet. I was really excited to call my family. Talk to my kids and tell them I was going to be bringing home a trophy. They're excited about that.   
 I can't wait to get home and be able to celebrate with them.   
  
  Q. Everybody was watching the leaderboard, and Scott Piercy threw up 61 to put up a number. He said I want those guys to look at that number for three hours but you didn't.   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: I didn't look at his number. It was probably a good thing I didn't. I didn't know until right now he shot 61. I knew he shot low, but I didn't know what he shot. You know, I was just trying to go about my business and get my work done.  
  
  Q. Why not look at the board?   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: Oh, I just didn't think it would help. I got off to a nice start and was in a nice rhythm. My coach, Coach Holder, in college didn't let us look at boards. Just told us play as good as you can. When it's over check how you did, so that's what I kind of stuck to.  
  
  Q. You did good this week. Long time coming for this. It's kind of been frustrating a little bit?   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: A little bit. But it's not like I've had these chances a hundred times. They've been pretty rare for me. I've lost in a few playoffs. But it's fun getting in contention. This is what you play for and this is great.   
  
  Q. Now you move one step closer to the other goal, and that is to get back to the Tour. Talk about the importance of that?   
 CHRIS TIDLAND: It's a big deal. Obviously, I can achieve some of my dreams and goals out there, and I can do the same thing here. So I've got still a lot of work to do this year and looking forward to the rest of the year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT