TCS NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 30, 2015
Caroline Rotich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you have a plan in terms of when you make your move? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: I know the training has been good. So it's how the race is going to go, and I'll just be ready to try to do my best then.

Q. [ No microphone ]. 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: So I'm going to get out there and try to do all I can.

Q. Do you change your training? Boston also is a course with hills and no pacers. New York City, a course with hills, no pacers. Do you do the same kind of training, or is it because the seasons have changed, you've slightly changed your training for this fall marathon as opposed to a spring marathon? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yeah, changing is‑‑ like it doesn't change that much. Everything is kind of the same and try to keep doing what I have been doing like before Boston too. So it hasn't changed that much.

Q. So you're also going to race against Mary Keitany this race. What is your impression of her as a racer? How do you feel about her? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: I know she's a good competitor. It's a lot of people still outside there. So it's not like I'm going to go there looking for Mary. I'm going to be outside there being me, and I'm going to get out there and just do the best I can. It's not like just for Mary or other runners. So I'm going to be there for myself too.

Q. So running a marathon must be very, very hard. In the moments when you think, oh, this is so hard, what do you think of? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: You try to stay positive, don't think about it's getting hard. Do I stop? Do I keep going? You try to tell yourself keep going. You've trained through it before. So you try to remember the training you kind of do and trained for, and this is the only thing I'm going to do today, and tomorrow is going to be an off day all day and another week. So you try to give it your all.

Q. What does The New York Marathon mean to you personally? Is it just another race, or does it mean something? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: New York is another big race in the world. So it's another goal. It's one race I want to race in my life, and I know I did before twice. So it's kind of like one thing I want to be part of it.

Q. So anything different this time around for your training? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Not really. I kind of have like the same training and try to just like stay in the race and all that stuff. So it's kind of the same.

Q. They stole your purse during the parade. Did they ever get it back? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: No.

Q. What was that all about? What happened there? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Do I have to talk about that? I think we were just having the parade there, and it's one of those times people get to have a chance to see if they can get something outside there, I think. So I think one of those. Someone broke in and stole my purse. 

Q. They didn't take your medal or anything, right? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: No. I think I had at the parade. So it was not in there.

Q. They always say something bad happens small before good happens. 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Thanks.

Q. Caroline, you've run in this twice. What have you learned in those that will help you this time? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Before, that was one of the biggest races I'd ever run. So it was kind of getting there and trying to race and just have a good time. But right now I have been training and it has been a long time. So I have all that mileage and knowing how the marathon feels, a big marathon. So it's kind of one thing I know the course now.

Q. Is there some knowledge that helps having been over this road twice? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yes, so it's like one thing I know. I kind of know what to train too, because I know the course.

Q. You said you know what to train too, or you know what to change? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Not much to change, because I know the course, know the New York course before. So it's kind of like more of good training now. I know my marathon time. So now I kind of know that and have that. So it's more like getting up for it.

Q. Caroline, for when they pick the Olympic team next year, I guess officially they won't count New York City Marathon, but do you still think that how you perform on Sunday could affect your chances of making that team? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Right now I don't know yet how it's going to be picked, but it's part of what I want to be in my life. It's part of love to represent and be in the Olympics. It's one of those things where I'm going to get out there and do my best.

Q. How do you think they should choose? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: I'm not going to put that on them. Right now, even just to put that, it's not going to change right now. You think that‑‑ it's the way it is. So I'm just going to go with what it is right now.

Q. Caroline, do you think in your own mind you're as in as good a condition now as you were in April in Boston?
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Condition‑wise?

Q. Yes, your condition. 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yes, I'm in most like the same. Kind of do the same thing. So I feel the same as Boston.

Q. You can tell from your interval training, right? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yes.

Q. Are they the same quality? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yeah, I kind of have a good training.

Q. What was your last 5K and 10K in Boston? Do you remember? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: I don't remember. I know maybe from 23 to 24, around there, was like 5:07 pace.

Q. For two miles? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: I don't know what I run for two miles. I just remember running as hard as I can.

Q. That's pretty hard. 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yeah, to think about it right now.

Q. But you're healthy and you feel good? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yes, I've been good.

Q. Do you look at the weather forecast as the race gets near? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yeah, I do. For sure.

Q. Is that part of strategy? Or are you thinking about tactics ahead of time depending what the weather might be? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Yeah, you're going to look at all that stuff there, because there's not a lot of training anymore. So you look at that kind of stuff.

Q. The forecast right now looks like nice marathon weather. I know you'll run the race no matter what the weather is. Isn't it exciting, when you think you might get the right temperature, to just run a good race and not be affected by it? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: Sure. When you have a good training, you want everything to go well. So when you have a good weather, it's like the best.

Q. What was the best conditions you've ever run a marathon in? What was the best of your previous marathons? 
    CAROLINE ROTICH: 50 is okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT