ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 3, 2011
Caroline Rotich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. This is your first New York City Marathon?
 CAROLINE ROTICH: No, I ran here last year.

 Q. What did you learn from last year's New York City Marathon? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: Last year it was just like I don't have a good idea how it's supposed to be like. 
 But I didn't know how it goes. But this year I have that, and I just feel prepared.

 Q. Do you feel like you're in better shape this year than you were heading into last year's race? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: Last year was like I'm ready, but still it was different for me. Like it's a big marathon, and it was really big for me thinking at that time. And after that, it's just like, okay, I'm going to be a marathoner and I can do this. So right now I just feel like it's easier for me to do it.

 Q. What is your own expectation heading into this race? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: I want to do better than last year.

 Q. I want to talk to you about Japan a little bit. Have you heard any news on that front? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: I met my cousin in Japan, in high school. We talk a little bit.

 Q. Your high school coach, was that the world championships for Japan or just for fun he was there? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: He was there with someone, his cousin. Yeah, and the lady (Inaudible). It was fun.

 Q. You said the school was okay? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: Yeah, he said the school was okay. They had a little bit of problem.

 Q. So how have you been training for the New York City Marathon? Has your training changed since last year from New York? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: I think the thing that's really changed is just the maturity. I know how it's looks, and how it feels. Last year was the first marathon, and it was just like "go and run and see, and feel it." But now I know about that.

 Q. How did the world championships go for you? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: I didn't have a good race there. I didn't have a good race.

 Q. Caroline, you ran the half marathon earlier this year. You were 8th in the New York City Marathon last year. How excited are you to be back in New York City? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: I'm really excited to be back again here. It's like, okay, I'm home right now. It's really good. Because I remember my halftime was like, "oh, I don't know if I can be here." But the more I'm coming back here, it feels like I'm going forward.

 Q. Talk about the decision to do a marathon after racing just a couple months ago. How has your recovery been? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: I was prepared for that. So I just really get to recover. It's really just your mentality, and the way your mind feels like, okay, you did before this. So it's just like I'm ready to race.

 Q. You were 8th last year, and you know some of the women that are running in this race and you've raced them before. What are some of your strategies for Sunday? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: I know last year was like really different, because even the way we started was like easy, slow, and then halfway we started picking up. But we'll see how the race goes this year if it's really going to be different. So we'll see on Sunday.

 Q. So many big events like this, all the way across the world, and you have to do all these media events, is it a stressful week for you? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: You know, I think it's just like part of my job. So it's just like getting used to it. Every time you go, it's like, okay, this is what I'm going to do. This is what I'm going to do. So just like sometimes it's like having time to rest and to do something. But it's just like, okay, this is part of my job. It's fun to be outside. It's really fun.

 Q. Do you have a favorite part of the course in New York? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: In New York? 

 Q. Do you remember it? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: 

 Q. Or least favorite? 
 CAROLINE ROTICH: It's just like after you're close to halfway, having like all the people there cheering. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT