NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 23, 2014
David Desharnais
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What about his motor?   Does he ever stop or is that motor always going?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   Yeah, he goes a hundred percent.   You know what to expect from him.   He's just great.  
   
 Q.   When you're that size, what's it take to play like that?   What about him allows him to play with that kind of fearlessness?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   He's not afraid.   He's not afraid to go anywhere.   He's not afraid to go in corners or get hit.   He's not afraid to go to the net.   So when you go to those dirty areas, you get rewarded.  
   
 Q.   Emotions run deep for every game in a series like this, but do you feel last night like they took a giant leap emotionally?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   Absolutely.   With that hit he set the tone, and they're not happy about it, but you set the tone for the game and it creates a rivalry right there.  
   
 Q.   Does it create kind of a danger?   Everyone says we're going to play whistle to whistle.   We're not going to try to retaliate, but guys do retaliate.   It happens, and it can impact a series.   Does it worry you that that could happen?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   It can impact the series, yeah, for sure, but you need to be the team that's going to be disciplined and doesn't retaliate.   So that's going to be the challenge.  
   
 Q.   What is the view in your camp of that first hit?   That it was fair game?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   Yeah, the game is fast.   Like I said, Prust wants to set the tone to that game, goes, hits the guy.   I thought it was a good hit.  
   
 Q.   A little late maybe?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   Like I said, you know, it's pretty fast out there.   You never want to see a guy injured like that.   But like I said, we were fighting for our lives yesterday and wanted to set the tone.  
   
 Q.   So it's a matter of whatever it takes at some point in the playoffs?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   Like I said, he's not going out there saying I want to injure that guy, I want to break his jaw.   He just wants to get the guys going.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned setting the tone with the hit.   We saw him on the bench very demonstrative.   Did he get you guys fired up after that?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   Yeah, absolutely.   They were not happy about it.   Everybody got a little chirp here and there, and the game was on.  
   
 Q.   Does that style favor you guys if it does ratchet up into that kind of series?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   It's just emotion.   If you can keep your composure, I think you're going to have the best outcome, I guess.  
   
 Q.   Does it help when that emotion ramps up and all of a sudden the fever rises a little bit?   
DAVID DESHARNAIS:   Yeah, well, it helps both teams.   But you just need to keep the right emotion.   You can't go retaliate.   Like I said, you keep your composure and that's the playoff.   You need emotion but at the right level, I guess.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT