MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: PURE MICHIGAN 400
August 13, 2017
Jim Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Jim Campbell, Vice President, Performance Vehicles and Motorsports for Chevrolet, and Jim, you've brought in with you the Michigan Heritage trophy, which is a recognition and celebration of the automobile and its importance here to the state of Michigan and Michigan International Speedway, presented to the winning manufacturer. You get to keep this one for a little while longer. How special is it for you to walk away with this trophy and put this back in your office? 
JIM CAMPBELL: Well, it is very special. Hello to everybody, and it's always great to race at Michigan International Speedway. When this trophy came into being, we were part of the effort along with the other manufacturers and the speedway to agree to get this thing going, and it's been awarded nine times. We've had a chance to win it six times. Kyle Larson, Chip Ganassi and Chevrolet the last three times consecutively to put in the winner's circle. So this trophy is celebrated back at our headquarters, and I will be really proud to bring this back home.
THE MODERATOR: Kyle Larson winning this for you three consecutive times, talk about the kind of talent he brings to the table for Chevrolet and what he means to that organization. 
JIM CAMPBELL: Well, he's a true racer. Kyle Larson is a true racer. Obviously he was racing in Knoxville last night, got in here late. I saw him today, had a chance to meet with him along with Chip and the team, and he had energy. He was ready to go today, and I think really excited about having the opportunity to do both races that Chip and the team gave him. So that was great, and then Kyle brought us our ninth win of the season. That compares to eight for Ford, six for Toyota, and they haven't done the final calculations, but I think that puts Chevrolet back in the points lead on the manufacturer points. Obviously we still have a number of races to go here before the season is over, but it was really a terrific day. 
Obviously very intense competition on the track. Kyle Larson, Chip Ganassi and the Chevrolet guys led the right lap. 

Q. They say great things come in threes. You released the Camaro this morning, now you've got this. There's six hours left in the day. What's coming up next? 
JIM CAMPBELL: Well, Bubba Wallace won the truck race the other day, too, so there's your third. But actually to that point, we've obviously been working on the new Chevrolet Camaro ZL‑1 race car. It was a really proud moment to reveal it in front of our Chevrolet world headquarters in Detroit in our Renaissance Center right on Jefferson Avenue. Jimmie Johnson drove the race car for the first time and brought it in for the big reveal, and really for large part, I don't know if anybody knew we were bringing that one out. There was talk about Malibu and Impala and all these others. It was the Camaro ZL‑1. We're proud to bring that to the race next year. We have the race car out in the fan display area along with the ZL‑1 production car, and the fans are loving it. We're really proud to do that this week. Bubba Wallace gets his win, and then Kyle Larson, Chip Ganassi and the 42 team brought our third of the weekend. It was really an exciting week. 

Q. A personal question concerning the trophy. I'm a little bit confused of the design. It looks like the Chrysler building in New York. Can you give some details about that? 
JIM CAMPBELL: Well, anyway you kind of cut it, Chevrolet's name appears on this thing six out of nine times, so we like that design feature a lot. 

Q. Talk about the bragging rights most of you guys‑‑ you and Ford being up here and obviously Toyota wanting to win in your backyard. Talk about the bragging rights of having that trophy. 
JIM CAMPBELL: Well, there's a lot of pride. It really is a lot of pride. What we'll do is we'll take this back to our headquarters tomorrow and have a chance to celebrate the race win, having the trophy here for the rest of this year. This is our third time in a row, sixth time overall. When it's not at our headquarters, it feels like something is missing, so this is always an important win for us, and obviously taking this back to celebrate‑‑ it's a point of pride more than anything. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT