NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: PURE MICHIGAN 400
August 28, 2016
Jim Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Michigan International Speedway each year awards the Michigan Heritage Trophy to the winning manufacturer. The trophy renews a fun rivalry between the auto makers and serves as an iconic reminder that Michigan International Speedway is the manufacturer's racetrack.   
Today we are joined by Jim Campbell, U.S. vice president, performance vehicles and motorsports for Chevrolet, the winning manufacturer of the No.42 Target Chevrolet.   
Jim, what does it mean for Chevrolet to take this trophy home and put it on display?   
JIM CAMPBELL: This trophy is pretty special. It was designed by students at the Center for Creative Studies, which is a pretty famous school in Detroit. It's a place that we recruit a lot of great designers for our company. It's pretty special in its background.   
I do think this is a great place to have a trophy that is for the manufacturers. This will be the fourth time out of seven occasions in which Chevrolet has had a chance to bring this trophy home.   
It's a real point of pride for us. But tremendous credit to Chip and Kyle Larson, the entire 42 team, for perservering all through that race and bringing home the first win for Kyle and this trophy back to Chevy. We're really proud of that.   
THE MODERATOR: As we look at that final restart, you had two of your fastest Chevrolets going head‑to‑head. Any concern those two guys may not hold it together?   
JIM CAMPBELL: You know, two young guys, we're so proud of them. They raced great together. Keselowski was sitting back there as well. He's always a threat. They did a great job, both of them.   
Chase just had a heck of a race. He had a great shot at it at the end. Kyle and the entire team just did a fantastic job.   
That gives us our fifth entry here for the Chase. We got a couple races to go. Hope to get a couple more and head on to the Chase for the championship.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Jim.   
   
 Q. How much do you view Kyle Larson and Chase Elliott as the foundation for your future as far as NASCAR?  
JIM CAMPBELL: Chevy has had a fortunate lineup of drivers and team owners, some of the very best in the industry. The records speak for themselves.   
As some of them retire and we are working with our team owners to bring guys in like Chase Elliott and Kyle Larson, it really bodes well for the future. We're proud of those guys. They're incredibly talented and surrounded by great teams.   
I'm really proud about what that can mean for the future. This is just the beginning. So we're looking forward to many more races with these guys.   
THE MODERATOR: Jim, congratulations on winning the Michigan Heritage Trophy. Good luck as you head into the Chase.   
JIM CAMPBELL: Thank you. One quick final comment. At the end of the season all the manufacturers get together and make a contribution to more of a stem‑based organization so they can fund programming with different organizations around the southeast Michigan area. We'll be doing that here at the end of the year. We're really proud of that. That's really the exciting part. Amongst those students may be a future race engineer or driver that may come and compete in a series like this.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.   
JIM CAMPBELL: Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT