NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: PURE MICHIGAN 400
August 17, 2014
Jim Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Chevrolet today with Jim Campbell.   Jim, talk about the win here with Gordon today. 
JIM CAMPBELL:   It was a great race.   Clearly Jeff just finished the race off beautifully.   Logano was really tough, I will say.   Kevin Harvick was right there, Junior, Paul Menard.   It was great to see that battle between Chevy and Ford all race long. 
Winning this trophy, I'm so glad because there's a donation that goes to the charity with it.   It's fun to have the rivalry with Ford and Toyota.   We won the trophy in the earlier races here.   It's great to retain it.   We had to bring it all the way back here.   So we told our teams, we really want to win that trophy again. 
We have so many men and women that work at our company that are here this weekend watching the races, supporting the effort.   It's so great to do it for them.   It's so fun to see so many fans show up today. 
It's a big weekend for us.   Jeff Gordon was with us on Thursday driving a Chevy SS.   Kurt Busch brought his '61 Corvette.   He did some cruising, as well.   It was a day of cruising yesterday, celebrating automobiles, then racing today.   We couldn't have been prouder to see Jeff win that, his 91st with Chevrolet overall.   It was an exciting day.   We're proud to be here. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take some questions for Jim. 

Q.   Roger looked pretty strong with his engines.   You guys now with the Hendrick powerplant look extremely good.   Can you comment on just the competition between the two. 
JIM CAMPBELL:   Yeah, no question.   That's what I was saying earlier.   Logano was very, very fast. 
We work closely with all of our teams, Rick Hendrick, Richard Childress, all of our teams on the Chevy power.   They do a great job, fantastic job, both teams do. 
You know what, it could have gone either way.   I think it was great to see Jeff and the Hendrick guys pull that through. 
It's a big rivalry.   We know all the guys from Ford.   We see them in town.   We travel to races, see them on the planes.   This trophy that Roger brings out from MIS, it makes it extra special.   That was Chevy's 13th win this season.   But winning a race in NASCAR is so difficult, so any week anything can happen. 

Q.   Can you give some information, update for next year for the Sprint Cup season, what will be the main areas you will focus on development for the Chevy engines? 
JIM CAMPBELL:   I mean, the focus is always delivering the right combination of power and durability and fuel efficiency.   You have to be efficient out there.   On occasion, some of the races factors in in that regard.   That's what we're really focused on with our teams, it's delivering that right combination. 
That's what you do daily in the showroom as we design and engineer our power train for the cars and trucks that we sell in the showroom. 
You heard there's a test here tomorrow with NASCAR.   We're working closely with NASCAR on a number of tests, as the other OEs are, as well, in terms of the engine development, performance, durability, efficiency. 
THE MODERATOR:   Congratulations again for Chevrolet.   This is a huge win for you guys getting the trophy back. 
JIM CAMPBELL:   Again, love the fact there's a donation attached to this that goes to a great cause in Michigan.   I think the three OEs select who gets the donation.   So thank you to Roger and the whole team. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT