TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2019
Sungjae Im
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you feel about the round?
SUNGJAE IM: I was off to a great start making a birdie in the first few holes. My game started to get a little shaky after that, but I'm glad I was able to finish better on the back nine. Overall, I'm happy with my first round.
Q. What caused you to be shaky?
SUNGJAE IM: I had a hard time getting my yardages right on my approach shots. I was in some tough positions from the greenside bunker and it was hard to save par from there. I also ended up in some rough after a bad second shot and it wasn't ideal. It was hard to get up and down from there.
Q. Can you talk about the approach shot on No. 17?
SUNGJAE IM: I thought my shot ended up in the rough, but it ended up being in some short grass area. I had a good lie and had some trees blocking my shot. I thought I would have a chance hitting a low, slicing shot. I ended up hitting it just like I had planned from 130 meters with my 9-iron. I think it curved about 15 yards.
Q. Being the only rookie in the TOUR Championship, do you feel like you've done enough to earn Rookie of the Year award this season?
SUNGJAE IM: I understand it's voted by the players. I think I have a great chance, being the only rookie to advance to the TOUR Championship.
Q. What would it mean to be Rookie of the Year?
SUNGJAE IM: I would be the first Korean, and actually the first Asian player to win the award if I received the honor. It would be incredibly significant for me and something I'll cherish for the rest of my life.
Q. You had a pretty loud Korean following. Were you aware of that?
SUNGJAE IM: I could hear them saying, “fighting” and saying my name. They were cheering for me a lot. I tried my best to focus on my game, so I didn't notice the gallery too much.
Q. Did you look at the leaderboard today?
SUNGJAE IM: I actually looked today.
Q. Was it because of the new format?
SUNGJAE IM: It's new and I was curious to see how the leaders were doing.
Q. What about the chances of making the Presidents Cup? Is that on your mind at all?
SUNGJAE IM: Even though I didn't qualify for the Presidents Cup, I finished No. 11 in the standings. I would be incredibly happy if Captain Ernie Els chose me. I hope Captain Els can take into account that I advanced to the TOUR Championship as a rookie. Hopefully that will give me a better chance to make the team.
Q. Did you plan your schedule in the fall?
SUNGJAE IM: I'll play Greenbrier, Sanderson Farms, Safeway, CJ CUP, ZOZO and China.
Q. What has been the most difficult transition for you this year?
SUNGJAE IM: I haven't faced any big changes. Luckily, I didn't suffer too much this year and had a really happy season, so I haven't really thought too much about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT