THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2019
Sungjae Im
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I want to talk about the Presidents Cup.  What would it mean to you, being in contention for the Presidents Cup if you were actually to make the team and go to Australia to play?
SUNGJAE IM: So I've been patching the Presidents Cup ever since I was a kid and to have the Presidents Cup in Korea a few years ago and having to watch that it motivated me to one day make the team.  So to have that opportunity this year is pretty amazing.
Q. And this coming year it's in Australia, have you ever been to Australia, or have you had a conversation with any of the Australian players to ask about courses in Australia?
SUNGJAE IM: I went once in 2014.  There was a big amateur tournament in Australia, so I was able to compete in that tournament in 2014 and that was the one time I went.  When I went to the course there it was near Sydney and I thought the course was so beautiful and there was some high buildings and tall buildings there, so I really liked the vibe of the city.
Q. Have you, has Captain Els reached out to you or included you in any meetings and talked to you about the possibility of playing?
SUNGJAE IM: We actually played for three days at AT&T Pebble Beach, we were paired together and then last year we met for the first time.
Q. Being on the PGA TOUR now as a fully exempt player how has that transition been for you and what's been the most surprising thing for you on the PGA TOUR this season?
SUNGJAE IM: To be playing with players that I've only seen on TV is pretty sweet and I think it's pretty cool and we always have car service and to have a full catered meal I think is awesome too.
Q. First time at THE PLAYERS finally, what is your impression of TPC Sawgrass and this whole environment and what do you anticipate for the rest of the week after seeing the golf course?  Does it fit your game?
SUNGJAE IM: I think it's a tough course and I think it has a lot to do with wind, how wind affects the play and there's a lot of water and hazards on the course.  I think if I'm able to get around the water and the hazards I'll be able to do okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT