THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2019
Sungjae Im
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If we can get some quick comments about your round today.
SUNGJAE IM: Yeah, all the shots that I wanted to hit turned out the way I wanted, so it led to a lot of birdies, and I was able to convert a lot of my birdie opportunities.  I think that's what led to a successful round today.
Q. What has been the biggest factor in changing from Web.com TOUR and that kind of travel to what you've experienced so far on the PGA TOUR?
SUNGJAE IM: Yeah, on the Web.com TOUR I noticed a lot of the courses get tougher as the season gets later in the season, so I thought that was the biggest difference.  But on the PGA TOUR, especially the length of the rough and the conditions around the greens are a lot tougher than what I used to do on the Web.com TOUR.
Q. I believe you only had 25 putts today.  Can you talk about your putting?
SUNGJAE IM: Yeah, I was hitting the ball really well today, so all my putts were under 10 feet, so a lot of the putts I made were short putts, and the only long putt I made was on the last, so I think that helped with a lot of the birdies that I made today.
Q. A lot of players struggle when they first get out here, but you've had some success in a short period of time.  Why do you think that is?
SUNGJAE IM: It honestly hasn't been easy for me, but having that No. 1 position on the Web.com TOUR and not having to worry about re-ranking has helped a lot, getting to play in almost every tournament, and also just being out here has been a great experience.  Also having a good start at Safeway helped a lot, racking up the FedEx points early.
Q. What do you remember about your first experience in the States a couple years ago?
SUNGJAE IM: I first came to the States for second stage of Q-school, and that's the first time I came to the U.S., and just seeing Americans in general was a new atmosphere for me and just getting use the to the people here has been a new experience.
Q. I remember at the PGA last year that you took a video of Tiger Woods' swing as you saw him in person.  What kinds of things have you learned about him, from him, and tried to emulate?
SUNGJAE IM: Yeah, so Tiger is a player obviously that I grew up watching, and I remember staying up late just watching all the major wins that he's had, and just being able to see him out here has been pretty amazing.  He kind of has an aura about him wherever you see him, and just seeing him able to hit different shots, hitting fades, hooks has been pretty amazing, so being with a legendary player like that has been awesome.
Q. How much is the Presidents Cup on your mind?
SUNGJAE IM: It's definitely something that I'm striving for.  I know that it's at the end of this year, and hopefully with a good record this year I'll be able to make the team.
Q. Korea has had many good players.  Y.E. Yang has won this tournament.  Are there one or two Korean players you've emulated coming up?
SUNGJAE IM: Yeah, with players like K.J. Choi and Y.E. Yang both having wins and even a major win, I think that's so impressive and something that I look up to.  Just having a win out here in general is so hard, so I think that's very impressive, and they're like role models to me.
Q. Do you wish Tiger was in the field this week?
SUNGJAE IM: I wish that every week that I'm competing, and just watching him makes me nervous.  So yeah, I do wish that every week that I'm here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT