ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 6, 2020
Sungjae Im
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can we get some comments about your round today?
SUNGJAE IM: I hit 3-under today, but overall, I was hitting the ball really well. I was finding the fairway from the teebox more than yesterday, so it made my second shots a lot easier. Due to that, I had more looks at birdies. I was a little disappointed that I couldn’t convert with my mid-range putts, but I’m still happy with how it went out there today.
Q. Can you tell us what happened on the last hole?
SUNGJAE IM: I hit my tee shot into the bunker. I hit my approach from 166 meters with my 7-iron and that went into another greenside bunker. I noticed I had a good lie from there and my bunker shots have been great all last week leading into this event, so I felt confident. I landed the ball right where I wanted to and ended on a good note.
Q. How’d you make that bogey?
SUNGJAE IM: I had a long putt on that par-3. My lag putt was a little short and had about two meters left. I think it was a little over three feet. It didn’t break as much as a I thought it would, so it unfortunately led to a bogey.
Q. You played with Rickie for the first time on TOUR. How was that?
SUNGJAE IM: Yeah, it was the first time on the PGA TOUR that I played with Rickie. When I was younger, I saw him win the Korea Open. I think I was in middle school or in sixth grade. I was in the gallery and saw him play as a fan. It’s cool to think that I’m playing in the same group as him on the PGA TOUR now. He’s always been a player that I’ve admired, and I learned a lot from playing with him. He’s a great shotmaker and always has the best manners. It was a fun experience.
Q. Any conversation with Rickie that stood out?
SUNGJAE IM: I hit a hybrid on a par-3 and it went straight for the pin. He praised me after the shot, and it was really cool.
Q. You’re in good position after the first two rounds. What’s your mindset entering Saturday?
SUNGJAE IM: This is a really difficult course, so there are holes that you need to play conservative. I want to put a lot of thought into my shots, but also know when to be aggressive when there’s an opportunity. There is definitely a lot of strategy involved. I hope to play well this weekend.
Q. What are you going to practice on this afternoon?
SUNGJAE IM: Just my putting. My shots felt pretty good today, so I want to finish the day off with more putting.
Q. What are your thoughts on THE PLAYERS coming up next week?
SUNGJAE IM: I made my first ace on the PGA TOUR at that event last year, but I unfortunately missed the cut. I hope to make the cut this year. Just take it one round at a time and be in contention.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT