NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 6, 2001
Brian Rafalski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Last couple of games seemed like they hit a wall; seems that you guys have gotten better as the series has gone along.  Do you agree with that?

BRIAN RAFALSKI: Who knows. You maybe look back, you can always change one game.  They have been skating well; so have we.  Last game maybe we got a few more chance.  Our forwards have been skating better.  Last game they were doing real well.  Hopefully they can keep doing that.


Q.  Does it matter to you guys if you are raising the Cup at home?  Clearly you don't want to go back....

BRIAN RAFALSKI:  You don't want to approach it like  that, that you that you have another chance.  You want to approach it that "this is it." That's our goal, to raise the Cup and you don't want to keep  -- you want to try to make it as soon as possible.  We have a chance do that tomorrow. 


Q.  When you went out and skated today, did you try and not think about that?

BRIAN RAFALSKI: Most of the guys have won it before, so you are not really thinking about that now.  Just trying to get loose, try to get your legs back a little bit after a long flight yesterday, try get a sweat.  Actually it helps you relax a little more because you are burning off that tenseness that may come along with it, so you are able to get out there, do what you love which is play hockey and burn some of that energy off.


Q.  How does it help having a coach that has seen every scenario that you can imagine in the Stanley Cup Finals and some of these players in the locker room that have seen every scenario?

BRIAN RAFALSKI: Yeah, well,  we have had some battles and battled through that.  Larry is a great coach.  He has been through all the situations, you listen to him. He knows what is happening.  He knows you can't take anything for granted and we have to keep doing what we did last year.


Q.  Any special inside information on Jason Arnott that you can share with us; whether or not he is going to go?

BRIAN RAFALSKI: That's his call.  I don't know how he feels.  Only he knows that.  We definitely need him.  He is a great player.  If we don't have him in the lineup then we are going to have to come out with the same passion.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT