NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 5, 2001
Brian Rafalski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  It's sees for us to say you guys are one win away from the Cup.  Do you guys look at it that way?
 
BRIAN RAFALSKI: You have to.  You have to almost take it as it's your last chance.  You don't want to have two chances.  If you had one chance to win it, you take it and this is our chance to -- first chance to do that.  We want to go take advantage of it.  The thing you don't want to do is play anymore games just because of injuries and things like that.  You don't want to risk that like during the Carolina series where guys got hurt and Arnie didn't play that 6th game. 
 

Q.  How much killer instinct is there on this team?  It has been questioned throughout the whole Playoffs here.  It's easy to say that it is behind you guys and guys have them now?
 
BRIAN RAFALSKI: Well, if we knew that for sure we wouldn't have to play.  That is why we play games, you have to find find a way to win.  We have to find a way to win. 
 

Q.  Do you sense them losing a little bit -- seeing frustration at all?  A lot of people were writing you guys off after that third game.  Suddenly you guys have control now.
 
BRIAN RAFALSKI: I think both teams are more a little frustrated about asking about frustration.  There is no time to be frustrated.  You got to go out there and play both teams.  For them it could be their last day so you have  got to go out there and give it your all.  We have to match that tomorrow.  They are going to come out with their best game. 
 

Q.  How confident a team is it compared to how you have been through the Playoffs?
 
BRIAN RAFALSKI: We have always been confident.  We have never lost confidence in our ability.  Might not have played the best at times but we don't lose confidence.  We keep going out there and keep working.  Alex is a good example of that, he might not have been scoring but he kept working and you know, that's what this team is about.  Everyone is not  -- (inaudible) whoever steps up that night, whoever scores, doesn't matter, as long as we get enough to win. 
 

Q.  Talk about experience.  You have been through this a couple of times now.  How much does it help after what you went through with Dallas last year?
 
BRIAN RAFALSKI: Good.  Definitely not as nervous as I was last year.  More relaxed.  We know what is going to happen; what it is all about.  If the crowd's going to be into it, sort of get them out of your mind a little bit.   Worrying about getting the job at hand and that's winning the game.  We have all been there.  We have been in these situations and it helps. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT