NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 5, 2000
Brian Rafalski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about that the goal and also the two stops that you -- or the stops that you
made against Dallas on their shots early on?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: Well, the goalie jumped off the bench and started to get in the play;
puck came right to me. Dallas was heading out of their zone, I was heading in. I had to
wait for Arnie and Patty to clear the zone, and I saw the space behind Zubov and went wide
and was able to get past him and get a good shot off. Two on ones in the second period.
The first one had to make trying to recover there, dive back for that one, probably turned
the puck over the blue line. So I felt I tried to make up for that. The second one, the
powerplay, you know, try to give Marty the shot. I was playing the pass the whole way. I
was able to be there. 
 
Q. You still have to win the fourth game, but what is it like for you, a rookie, being
in this situation?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: It is great so far. We have come this far, but 15 minutes doesn't get
you a Stanley Cup; 16 does. The next game we don't want to try to drag this series on any
longer. We are going to try to take it to them again on Thursday. When a team is down 3-1,
we were in that situation last round, we were able to come back. So we don't want to --
hopefully learn from Philly's let-down there and take advantage of the situation. 
 
Q. When you are playing in Europe the last four years, how far away from the Stanley
Cup Finals did it feel? Did you ever wonder if you were ever going to get an opportunity
like this?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: Yeah. You even -- coming over for when I signed with the Devils, I knew
I had a good chance of making it this far. That was one of the reasons why I was, you
know, was looking to sign with the Devils when they came to me. And then to reach this
point, it has been great. It seemed like far way, but I have been in the Finals the last
two years in Finland, final games, the pressures, and so much there. 
 
Q. After the unfortunate circumstances in Game 2, how good did it feel for you
personally to score that goal and kind of erase everything that happened back in New
Jersey?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: Well, just got to move on. They only won one game. You have to put it
behind. You can't dwell on the past. So last game I felt I played pretty well. Today I
played fairly well again, and I have been playing more consistent. Had had a couple of
turnovers today, but I am getting used to playing against the Dallas Stars now, which is
key for me. I have played two games against them all year until the Playoffs. For me, I
have haven't seen a lot of these players. As the series has gone on, I have felt more and
more comfortable. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT