NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 5, 2000
Brian Rafalski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What is the biggest challenge that you find about facing Modano and Hull? Anything
that might be different than you faced from the other top lines earlier in the Playoffs?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: A lot more speed, maybe, their shift gear harder to pin down, and they
cycle real well and support each other. They are able to find the open spaces and create
time for themselves, so the hardest part is taking their time away. 
 
Q. You said before that you are thinking game by game, and I know that; but now that
you are three games into it, is there anything about the Stanley Cup Finals that has
surprised you, or what have you seen that is different from say the previous rounds?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: The amount of media attention. Not much difference. We just haven't
played this team much this year, so it is a different look. 
 
Q. Harder to focus?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: No. I mean, when you are this close, it is easier to focus. As long as
your team is left, it is just between you two. You don't have to worry about who you are
going to be playing in the next round. This is the end. 
 
Q. Talk about the time that -- the ice time is spread out so widely among the players.
Does that mean a lot more to you because you are fresher than the Stars?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: You mean, the whole the team? We are trying to matchup a little more
the top two lines. When they are playing, we have to -- defensive pairings, you know, we
don't have as much time to relax. The forwards have maybe a little more energy with
rolling four lines. 
 
Q. In order to get the matchups you want, especially on the road, you and Scott have to
do the changes on the fly frequently. How much discipline does that require, and who is
responsible for making sure you get on and off the ice without the penalty?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: It is a group responsibility. We have been doing it throughout Playoffs
every series now, and we were -- got caught a couple of times in the Florida series with
too many men on the ice. As we have gotten along, we have got more disciplined with it and
more ready. It has become easier for us because there is more communication, and we know
when we are supposed to change, so it is easier as the Playoffs have gone on this year. 
 
Q. Are you impressed or surprised or whatever from the level of play that Scott Stevens
took himself to in the Playoffs?
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: I am not surprised. He has been a great player for so many years that
he still has it in him. He is still in great shape. I think he was, you know, climbing up
a hill towards Playoffs, getting better as the season went along and preparing himself for
the Playoffs. He has been able to do that this year and really step up in the Playoffs and
play more minutes than he was maybe in the regular season. 
 
Q. (inaudible)
 
 BRIAN RAFALSKI: I have been doing that like in years in Finland, because I knew we were
making the Playoffs. That is the focus I have had, making it to the Finals the previous
two years in my League in Finland. So I had a pretty good idea of what I had to do. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT