DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2012
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I think today was a little tougher than yesterday conditions‑wise.   Yesterday we had no wind.   Today it was a lot of those flags that were 40, 42, V43 back, and you standing there, you are look like you're nearly front edge but you're hitting 5‑irons into those flags.   It's a lot tougher today.   
I'm happy with those last two birdies.   That sort of justified the way I played.   3‑under would not have made me happy.   Again, I played really well.   My two bogeys were very soft.   But you know, game is slowly coming back.   
   
 Q.   And because you've scored well in tougher conditions, does that make it all the more satisfying than, say, that first day?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I mean, you know, first day I left a lot of putts out there.   
Today, I made a nice putt there on 17.   I mean, I 3‑putted 16 from pretty close, but overall, I think I just put a better score together today in these conditions.   
   
 Q.   I know this is a silly question but is there something South African about the nature of this course, because Branden Grace is up there, Louis is up there, George Coetzee is up there, Thomas Aiken has played well, and of course yourself.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I'm just happy to play well.   I've actually not been playing well for a long time, but you know, nice to join them for a change.   
   
 Q.   A nice rivalry between you, so does that spur you on that they are playing well?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I mean, it's always nice to see your guys play well.   But like I say, I haven't played well for a very long time, so count me out of that group.   I'll be on my own.   
   
 Q.   In plenty of times, they have looked up to you and thought, yeah, you've done well, got to follow in your coat‑strings, if you like.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, for sure.   That's the way it goes.   You always look at what your friends and your fellow country men are doing.   I think that spurs you on a little bit.   
Like I say, I haven't played well for myself for a very long time.   At this stage, I'm just happy to put a few rounds together.  
   
 Q.   At this stage, do you look ahead and look at what is needed over the weekend?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Well, I mean, we all know that you're going to have to keep going.   It's the sort of golf course where there are birdies out there, the way I'm playing.   
So you know, I don't know.   You know, just got to keep at it, keep hitting good shots, and keep shooting these 4‑ and 5‑unders, and I think I'll be very close by the end.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT