DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Let's talk about a bogey‑free 65.   That's pretty strong today.   How pleased are you with the way you played today?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I think I played great.   I got off to a really good start, then went to sleep for a while there in the middle and made a great save on 14, and that's what woke me up a bit.   I made birdie on 15 and 17.   I would have loved one on 18, it was a good chance, but overall it was a great round this afternoon with the wind blowing.

Q.   I followed you at the Wyndham Championship, thought the swing was great.   How good is your game right now?   Maybe the best it's been all year right now?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   This is my seventh in a row to be honest.   Swing is good.   It's been a while.   I had the injury at the U.S. Open and it set me back quite a bit, came back, lost a bit of confidence, and just seeing if I can play myself back into it.   There's been great signs of it sort of from Wyndham, just finishing poorly on Sunday.   Same thing at Bethpage, I was up there, finished poorly on Sunday.   It's there.   Once again, I can feel the game is great, so just a matter of finishing it off. 

Q.   Looking forward to tomorrow?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I mean, I put myself into a good position.   I love the golf course.   Halfway there now.   Like I said, nice challenge for the weekend. 

Q.   When you're staying at 71, how do you approach that?   Is there pressure there?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   What pressure?   I can still win the FedEx. 

Q.   When both you and Louis are playing really well, do you play off each other?   Is there anything that sort of goes on between the two of you when you're having good rounds?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, Louis has been playing well for a long time now.   I haven't been playing as good as I should be.   But it's nice to see.   When he's doing well, it urges you on to do the same. 

Q.   Obviously, like you say, you can still win the FedExCup, but you did come in outside the number, 70.   How much were you just so confident‑‑
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I never thought about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT