U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   You have to shape it just about every single shot.   It demands a shaped ball.   And it really tests your skills.  
   
 Q.   I know that the bogey at the end there was not how you want to finish your round, but all in all, do you feel okay with the way you played today?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I think the afternoon's are definitely couple shots more difficult than the morning.   The course firms out really a lot and I played fantastic.   I just bogeyed the easiest hole on the course.  
   
 Q.   Did the position for the weekend, it's going to be hard to make up numbers out there?   What's the approach for the weekend?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It is.   There's obviously a few holes, well a lot of holes where you got to just hold on to it and see if you can make pars and you hit a decent shot here and there.   You're going to give your self birdie opportunities, but obviously I'm trying to make a few birdies and get it back to around level par.   But you got take this golf course as it comes.   I don't think anyone's going to really run away with it.   
   
 Q.   You've had experience in a Major before and won one.   Does that in any way carry over in terms of planning the process and strategy for a U.S. Open?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I'm sure.   Getting a Major behind your belt obviously takes a little bit of pressure off getting your first.   It's always a burden for a lot of people and now I've got experience in getting one of these titles.   So it's definitely going to help being out there on the weekend, you know what it takes.   So it's a nice thing to have in the bag.   
   
 Q.   There's a fine line between letting the field come back to you and maybe chasing the guys on the leaderboard, where do you draw that line and how do you approach trying to get in the mix?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Once again, I just think you got to.   Like I said, it demands so much, every shot demands so much out of you and you just got to hit everyone the best you can and I feel pretty comfortable out there.   I feel like I can do something, which is a good thing.   I think a lot of guys are pretty scared of it, I don't get that feeling.   I got 36 holes left and I feel I have a very good chance.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT