MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Solid, I felt good out there.   I hit some really good shots.   My golf swing felt like I was in control of it and, you know, I just ‑‑ it could have easily been a 2 or 3‑under par day. 
Disappointing finish, bogey out of the middle of the fairway.   And 18 was ‑‑ I had 7 iron in and made bogey. 
(Inaudible)

Q.   Could have been better.   There were times that it could have been a lot worse, too?   Do you feel like you saved yourself a few times?   15? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I mean, I actually think it should have a little bit better.   I really don't think about the worst part of it.   I felt comfortable.   I felt good.   (Inaudible).

Q.   Now that you do have the memories from last year, does it change how you go around this course at all?   Is there different feelings that pop out at certain places?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Last year (inaudible) I'm pretty much sticking with what I did last year on most of the holes.   It's what I did today and I put myself in play most of the day and, you know, it's a long ways to go.

Q.   A lot of players talked about not the conditions of the golf course because they are soft, but more the hole locations and how the setup was.   They thought it was relatively difficult for a Thursday.   What did you think? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   There was a few flags that I saw on Sunday last year out there on Thursday now.   I mean, No. 1, No. 3, there was a few holes that very close to the back edges making it very difficult.

Q.   Did you feel like it was Sunday last year? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I wish I played like Sunday last year.

Q.   Were you surprised the scores weren't a little lower, since it was softer that somebody didn't light it up? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   There was a lot of back flags.   It's not that easy.   Sometimes when it's firmer, you can bounce it off the hole.   Now the ball keeps spinning away from the hole.   Also a lot of mud balls.

Q.   Not as much off the tee and the rollout?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Exactly.   The course is playing long.   It doesn't necessarily make it easier.

Q.   Was that first hole one of the most difficult first holes on the course?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, I think what's making it difficult obviously are (inaudible).   You know, to be fair, it's a pretty wide area to hit your tee shot into.   If you have done your preparation, your second shot you should go for the middle of the green, irrelevant of where the flag is.   It should not be that difficult, but it's starting the first day you are nervous. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT