WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2012
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Solid, decent day? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, very solid.   It was very difficult out there.   The wind was up as it was in the practice rounds, so, it's tough.   You need to hit the ball‑‑ keep it on these fairways.   You can't play out of the rough.   The rough, you can't generate any sort of spin, so you most of the time will end up a long way from the hole. 
I was able to hit good shots and keep it in the fairway and I made two good par saves that kept my round going. 

Q.   Can you go over those quickly, where those par saves were? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   On 11 I missed the green to the right side and made a 12‑footer there for par, after going birdie, birdie, just kept the momentum going. 
I made another one on 6.   Once again from middle of the fairway, blocked it right and I had to chip it and once again, a little 12‑footer for par.   That was early on.   That's coming off the bogey on 4.   Didn't need another bogey.   You know, feels like I was going backwards making bogeys out of the fairway.   Those were two big saves for me. 

Q.   What about 18?   How was that playing when you played it in?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   18 felt like an eagle.   (Laughing).
18 is playing tough.   I think that's as tough a wind as you can play it in, off the left.   If you bail, you are probably going to make bogey anyway.   It's one of those where you just really have to take it on.   There's nowhere out.   So I probably hit my best tee shot of the day down there, which was quite a bit of a bonus, a beautiful 5‑iron, and I ran off there with a 4.   I'm very happy (chuckling). 

Q.   What did you have left in there? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I had 185 to the flag. 

Q.   So are you fairly satisfied with the round, particularly in this wind? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I'm very satisfied.   It's one of those golf courses where there is birdies out there, even if the wind is blowing.   It makes it difficult.   When it's up like this, it's gusting, so it's very difficult to make putts.   And you know, I felt like I played very solid.   Only one bogey in these conditions, take it any day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT