WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round today.   Impressive victory, I believe, right?   Just talk about how it went out there.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I played really solid.   I didn't make any mistakes at all.   Gary unfortunately hit a few bad shots at ‑‑ he gave me the holes.   But I just ‑‑ I think I kept applying pressure.   I hardly missed a golf shot.   It was just a good solid round of golf.   
   
 Q.   Talk about any keys to an early match.   I know it's a sprint here with 18 holes of match play, just the keys to getting out early?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, of course.   I mean, you know, to be fair on the second hole, it looked like Gary was in the driver's seat.   He hit a beautiful second shot in there, and I was just to the right of the green.   I ended up chipping it in and he misses the putt.   So I go 1 up and that's a big momentum swing.   
The very next hole, he's in the water and I make par.   So I have got 2 up through three, where you probably would have thought anything level or something like that.   So I was 2 up through three very early on, and from there it was just basically ‑‑ I got up early on.   I won the 5th hole as well, so I was 3 up.   From there, I didn't miss a green.   Kept hitting good shots.   He made a few errors that I don't think he normally would have made.   
   
 Q.   Sound like everything you want to do in match play.   That's the game plan?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Exactly.   You play to what your opponent is doing, so I was ‑‑ I was hitting it first, obviously, the whole time I hit the ball so far.   So I was ‑‑ I kept hitting good shots into the greens and then he hit a few bad ones and that's how I won my holes.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to the next round?   Just kind of get some rest?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I played really, really solid, so I feel very good.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT