DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
December 11, 2011
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Came up short, but every year I seem to improve.   I played really solid golf today.   When you give yourself enough opportunities, you always feel like you left out some, but I played solid golf today and just capped off a good year.

Q.   I presume you felt like you had a chance with the way you started on the front nine?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I did.   I felt like if I could come out and shoot 16‑ or 17‑under, it was very on.   I mean, 9, 10,11, I had all very good chances.   But you know, they stopped going in at that stage, and at least I made it interesting. 

Q.   And you gave yourself, as you say, so many opportunities there, the leaders have not raced away, have they? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It's tough.   It's tough leading tournaments.   Because you know, I was five back.   I would have liked to start the day at 10‑, 11‑under, but 8 is far back.   Got off to a good start, and I felt like if I could just keep it going, make 4‑ or 5‑under the back nine, I could sit and wait for the guys. 
But all in all, it's been a good week and I played good golf today.

Q.   Your thoughts on Luke? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Well, amazing.   I'm a guy that strives for consistency, and he's taken consistency to another level.   He deserves it.   He's played unbelievable golf, and you know, he you play golf like, that you're going to get the rewards, and what he's done, congratulations to him. 

Q.   You play all over the world, so you know what it's like on jets here to different place, hotel, golf course, that really does show just what can be achieved and it's an amazing feat, isn't it. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Oh, of course.   What he's done, playing all over the world, like I said, unbelievable. 

Q.   Is it something that you foresaw ever happening?   I suppose it's easier now than in the past with the number of WGCs and Majors. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I was going to say, at least with the Majors and the World events which we all play in anyways, they are all the biggest tournaments.   So if you play well in those, you stand a good chance of doing that, winning Order of Merits and that sort of thing. 
So, it is possible, and I know I can do it.   But you need to play consistent golf like Luke.   It's been very good to watch.

Q.   What you've already done and achieved, you don't need inspiration, but when you look to someone who has done, that does that kick you and feel you have to do some more? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   To see someone actually do it; for a lot of people, it's just breaking the ice to see that it is possible.   Sometimes it takes someone to do it, and you know, Luke has done it.   So, congratulations.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT