OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 26, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE GREEN:   Charl, Louis, well played today.   If we can get some comments on your performance today.  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   We scored very well today.   The first two days, we really struggled with putting.   And today the first few holes we didn't make any putts, but then from 7, 8, 9, we made three birdies in a row, so suddenly we felt like we were back to our normal selves.   Yesterday our score was the worst we could have had; we are playing well but we couldn't putt.   Now we have a good chance going into tomorrow, and it's always an honour to play for your country.   
   
 Q.   Both of you know each other very well, since you were in your junior golf, does it really help, especially competing in a team event like this?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I think we know each other really well and we travel most of the weeks together.   We are good friends and I think it definitely is a big thing in this format, in any team sport.   The more you know each other, the better you're going to do, and I think we are very comfortable around each other playing on the course, and we do our own thing and whenever someone needs help, you ask him.   
You know, it makes it a lot easier that we are so comfortable around each other.   
   
 Q.   The South African Open was scheduled originally the same week as The Presidents Cup, and then they moved the event back a week, so now it's clashed with the World Cup.   Is it fair?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Is it fair; you know, I think they probably moved it because the defending champion, Ernie, was playing Presidents Cup and the only way to get your defending champion back was to move it.   
You know, if you look at that, then it made sense.   It would be nice if we could get different dates, though; that everything falls into place where we can always play the South African Open.   
   
 Q.   Right now, the top three teams, we have got five Major winners, so it seems like this is a perfect course for the Major winners?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, I think it's a proper golf course.   You know, it's long and you need to play well.   Probably‑‑ I don't want to putt this wrong, but your Major champions that's done well over the last couple of months and year or so, they are obviously playing well, so it just shows the good players coming to the top.   
   
 Q.   Are you two both accompanied with your wives?   Do you travel quite a bit when you go overseas with your wives?   Do they come with you?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I have my wife here this week, and most of the weeks.   We try to‑‑ whenever we are playing the same week, we make sure we try a lot of times to share a house for the week, get a house, and it's a lot easier in a house than it is in a hotel room.   
Yeah, we are good friends, the four of us, so it was always‑‑ they were always going to come here to support us.   
   
 Q.   Can you use one sentence to describe what does golf mean to your life?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   You can take that one.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   My living.   
   
 Q.   Your living?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   (Shrugging shoulders).   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   You love the game, and that's why you do it‑‑ I don't know what to say (laughter).   
   
 Q.   The details of your performance today?   Can you describe what is the highlight of today's round?   Any specific hole?   Anything really interesting, maybe inside or outside the ropes?   How do you like the fans around the ropes watching?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, you know, the highlight is, you know, we knew we needed to play a low round today and we went out and did it.   To me, it just showed us and gave us good confidence for tomorrow.   
MIKE GREEN:   Thank you very much indeed.  
   
  
  
 
 
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT