OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 25, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A little frustrating day, but you're not in a bad spot; you're ready for a decent round tomorrow.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I mean, we played good.   We shot 68 in foursomes, which I think anyone will regard as a good score.   
You were out there, and you saw how we actually played.   We feel disappointed because we played really, really good.   We missed a lot of putts.   You know, and I don't think 65 was even‑‑ was not too much to ask for out there today, the way we played.   
You know, 8‑under, we've made a bit of a move.   I think that it's getting tough, the conditions.   The wind is picking up a little bit, and we are really going to have to play well the next two days.   I mean, we are going to have to keep playing like we are playing, but we need to make putts.   
   
 Q.   That was going to be my next question, it seemed just difficult to pick the line for the putt.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I mean, the greens are‑‑ to be fair, they are snaking a little bit.   So you can't blame it all on yourself on putting.   We feel like we are hitting good putts but we are not getting the lines.   Sometimes we do get the line and it just misses.   
You know, we know in golf, that can change at any time.   We go out tomorrow, and we are capable of shooting a really, really low score and that's what we are going to need to do.  
   
 Q.   And tomorrow is a chance to put right what happened yesterday; you played great golf but didn't get the score.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yesterday, we both go out there and shoot 68 gross, but we make four birdies on the same hole.   
We are playing good.   So as you can see in foursomes, we shot 68, so you know, do the same tomorrow and make a few more birdies on different holes, could do well for us.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, we had two tough days, felt like we played a lot better.   Yesterday we made birdies on the same holes, and today we should have been 8‑under.   We hit it really well.   We had a lot of birdie chances, but struggling to read the greens again.   We just are hitting good putts, but we are just not making any.   
   
 Q.   68 in foursomes is decent and got you in a reasonable position.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, you know, we knew foursomes is different and we just felt like if we play well, shoot 65 or something, you can get right up the leaderboard.   
There's a lot of golf left but tomorrow we must probably try and get the birdies on different holes.   
   
 Q.   I know the first day is history now, but it seems that you weighed in on the same places, didn't you.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think what got us a bit, we were actually not really knowing what the scores were going to be like the first round.   Because it felt like it played tough out there.   And then you looked at the leaderboard, guys were making birdies.   I think tomorrow, we see now that you can make a lot of birdies.   Tomorrow we are probably just going to be a bit more aggressive.  
   
 Q.   You're forewarned about what you've got to do now, I presume that means targeting 62,63 to get right in the mix?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Definitely.   I think tomorrow we have got to shoot anything under 64, and the way we feeling we're playing, we could shoot close to 60.   
   
 Q.   Strategy is a key word in this game and it changes day by day depending on fourballs and foursomes, how is that going?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think I was a bit nervous today, because you know how it was as amateurs and juniors, you didn't really care, just played.   Today, big stage, playing foursomes again and first time in nine years or ten years with Charl, it was just great.   We synced together brilliantly, and we didn't do our own thing and it was just brilliant.   
   
 Q.   Does that change in terms of fourballs?   I gather you're driving particularly well, so you can let Charl take a few more risks and you'll be steady‑ish?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think it's better if you just give yourself both as much birdie opportunities, and we'll just play the same.   There's iron shots into the green, we probably just try and get it a bit closer, if one is already on the green.   But you know, two chances are way better than one.   
   
 Q.   And you're more and more familiar with the course and the vagaries of the greens and things by now?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I like that it's windy.   It worked out perfectly today, Charl teed off first and I had a lot of iron shots the front nine.   I hit a crappy second shot on 17 there, but managed to make a nice 8‑footer.   
The last hole, just miss‑read it again and it's just very frustrating.   
   
 Q.   Overall verdict still positive about what's to come?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, definitely.   I think if we can get the line right on the greens and the way we are playing, you know, we can shoot a really low one tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT