PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2011
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round. Good round?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Sure, yeah, thank you very much. The whole week felt like I've been playing -- the course is just very penalizing. You know, today I just maybe played a little bit more -- I want to say conservative maybe, but more clever. A few of the holes that were inviting me the first two rounds I took with a bit more caution today and I just kept playing -- like I said, the whole week, it really has been good ball-striking for me, and I've made a bunch of birdies, but just, you know, the first two days have been too many bogeys and double-bogeys, and today I managed to prevent those. 

 Q. Is that as tough a finishing stretch you've seen in golf and how do you feel you've handled them over three days?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Definitely some of the toughest I've ever played. And like I said, the first couple days, they have not treated me too well. And then today was much better. I think I was 1-under through the last four holes, and I think any time you're going to do that on this golf course, you know you're going to end up fairly well. It's going to be -- these last four holes are going to decide this golf tournament. 

 Q. How did you play 18 today? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Today I went really conservative. I hit 3-iron off the tee and left myself with another very big 3-iron. 

 Q. How much did you have for your second?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: My second, I had 250. 

 Q. Were you hitting 3-iron and thinking you were going to go in two?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yes, I figured I could get there with two good 3-irons. The thing is, if I hit anything, if I hit 5-wood or 3-wood, the water is in play, so I might as well hit driver. The first two days -- the first day I hit a really good driver and it pitched on maybe a foot from being perfect on to the bank and it kicked left in the water. The other day I just pushed it to the right and I couldn't go. 
 So I just figured, see if we can do something out of the fairway, even if it's from a long distance away.

 Q. Would you consider laying up there? You missed a 3-iron off the tee a little bit. How much would you --
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: No, no. I can still hit my 3-wood 280, so I'll be still going. There's no lay-up in my books. I never miss the fairways (laughing).

 Q. Talk about the course, was it tougher or easier than the first two rounds?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I think it's pretty much the same as it was. Obviously the field after the cut, there's half of the players here, so to he me the greens are in a bit better condition. We had fairly decent greens, so not too many -- you know, I think it was pretty much the same. 

 Q. Can they put the pins any nearer the edges than today? Looked like most of them are four steps on?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: There were a few close to the edge but I thought it was a very good balance. You know, they got it a few tucked flags but then they moved up -- which makes it a good choice, makes it more exciting and gives the guys a chance to make some birdies.
 And not just, that if you don't pull it off, you're going to make bogey. So it's a good risk and reward.

 Q. What was the most satisfying shot you played today? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I was very pleased making par on 18. 

 Q. The second 3-iron?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, it was one of my better shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT