THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2011
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Overall, I was pretty pleased with the way I played. I just put myself back in the tournament. 

 Q. Was it changeable with the conditions, drastic one side to the other?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, this morning, like I say, was very calm. You could fire at the flag. In a way it felt like playing a parkland course. You don't sort of have to bounce it up. But when we turned for the back nine it started getting windy, and it got tough. Like I said, hitting 380-yard drives, so the wind has got to be blowing for you to be hitting it that far. 
 The guys in the afternoon, I'm going to enjoy watching them on the TV.

 Q. Was it wind as much as how firm the greens got?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, I don't think necessarily the greens. The greens are firm, but around the greens seems to be firmer, and that's making it very difficult. The ball is so predictable on the bounce, you could bounce it 20 yards short and still go over the back of the green, or you can pitch it five yards short and it stays on the green. It's so difficult to predict what it's going to do when it hits the ground. It's getting really dusty and it's getting really firm around the greens. I'm sure as the day goes on, the greens will firm up even more, so that's going to make it even more difficult for when we play it in the morning. When we played in the morning it was slightly softer.

 Q. Are you surprised 4-under is still at the top of the leaderboard?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: A little bit. I would have thought -- even myself, I got off to such a good start. I mean, I had a good score out there, but I guess that's this golf course. You're not going to just walk all over it. I would have thought someone may be a bit lower, but out there right now it's tough. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Everything. We were complaining it was so dusty and struggling with hayfever out there. It's getting firm. It's getting really firm and bouncy. 

 Q. Because the conditions were so changeable from morning to afternoon (inaudible.)
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, I think any British Open that's the case. When you have tee times going from 7:00 in the morning until 4:00 in the afternoon, there's going to be a margin of luck in which side of the draw you're going to get. It hasn't been unplayable like St. Andrews was. Friday afternoon at St. Andrews was just almost unplayable. Here guys still have a chance. 

 Q. Did you go on the bunker on 14?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I've been in so many bunkers, I don't know. I did, yeah. I hit a wayward tee shot. I had to chip out, and then hit my 3-wood a bit left, and it caught someone on the head. It was actually a good break. It ran up into the bunker, but it was a good break. Sometimes you're going to need those sort of things to happen to go your way. 
 I felt sorry for the guy, but it's one of those things. 

 Q. Yesterday you seemed a little bit frustrated coming in. Did you find something today? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I mean, yesterday I felt I was playing well. I was hitting good shots, and I was getting penalised for it. I was hitting tee shots on the lines I was aiming for, and you're talking one yard either way and you're absolutely perfect, and you end up in bunkers and chipping out sideways and now all of a sudden grinding for bogeys. After a while that sort of starts getting frustrating. I went into four bunkers in five holes. It just feels like you're losing ground playing well. 
 And today I just played well. Same thing as yesterday. It feels good. My putting feels good, the greens are good, so it's just a matter of grinding it out, I suppose.

 Q. When you start getting those breaks like yesterday, do you have to think around here that everybody else is probably getting them, too, and to not let yourself get too --
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: That's what you sort of comfort yourself on. You hope someone else is getting these sort of breaks. Everyone is going to -- this golf course is so bouncy, got so many hills on the fairways, you know, there's sort of a margin of luck. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: To be honest, if it stays dry it'll help me. I would like to see sort of similar conditions like this.

 Q. Have you seen the weather forecast?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I've seen it, and I don't want to think about it (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT