U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2011
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Will you take a little more time this afternoon to become a golf fan and watch what Rory is doing?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I'd love to watch. What he is doing is very spectacular, and that's a little bit of history there, and it's always nice to watch it.

 Q. Obviously the course is a little softer than typical for a U.S. Open. Does it take away at all from what Rory is doing to it? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: No. I mean, in a way I think it plays to his strengths. He hits the ball very high, very far, so he's getting a lot out of it. But saying that, he needs to play well. You're not going to be making scores like that if you're not playing really well. Like I said, I'll sit back and watch. It's very good.

 Q. Considering your connection to him at Augusta this year, obviously you would have liked to have won this championship, but are you really happy to see the way that Rory has responded to what happened at Augusta here? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yes, I am. You know, the way he reacted, the way he handled it afterwards, it looked like it was going to be around the corner. He put it behind him very quickly. I think you guys sort of took it a bit further and tried to see why, and he just said, well, it happened, and he sort of got on with it a lot quicker, which for him was very good, and the results are showing.

 Q. What was it like to play in this major, probably the first major in America where the fans probably knew where you were? Did you like all the recognition from the galleries?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I did. It was nice to play. I was saying to my caddie that a couple years ago, five, six years ago when I came out here, you would walk down the fairway and people would recognize you. They'd say we've seen you somewhere, but they don't actually know who you are. Sometimes you'd hear, "Who's that guy?" And now I really had a lot of support, and that's nice. It's very encouraging.

 Q. Four straight majors have been won by guys in their 20s now. Are we seeing a changing of the guard now in a way?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I think we are. There's really exciting golfers coming up and the guys are playing well. It's great to see. 

 Q. How did your round go?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I played pretty spectacular today actually. I nearly holed two iron shots. The whole thing is everyone can always say I could have played better, but I had a really good low score. I made five birdies, no bogeys on a final day of a U.S. Open. I think I'm pretty happy with that.

 Q. Where did you nearly hole the 2-iron shot?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: On No. 10, I nearly made a hole-in-one. And on 17, I nearly holed my 7-iron.

 Q. Talk about Rory this week. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It's pretty spectacular what he's done. It looks like he's playing a different course. He's played four rounds of what I've just had in the last. He's having one of those weeks that things are going, and he's really handling it very well.

 Q. You're coming off a major championship yourself earlier this year and backed it up pretty nicely. Do you feel like this is a pretty good showing for the next major?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Actually I felt very comfortable. I really felt like I -- I thought if I got to 10-under, it would have been good, but obviously what Rory is doing is just one of those things. But I felt comfortable, and that's a good feeling to have. 

 Q. How has life changed since the Masters? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It has changed. You know, winning the Masters was a big step for me, and it gave me a lot of confidence. It's been very good.

 Q. Just confidence?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Confidence and exposure and the whole thing. You get normal PGA events and then you get majors, and --

 Q. Did you feel it this week from the crowd?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I sure did, and it was pretty -- it was nice to have a lot of support. I enjoyed that. 

 Q. The emergence of the European Tour, five majors, five European Tour winners. Talk about the emergence of that Tour. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: That's pretty spectacular. I think you learn a lot, and guys are coming out and really showing. It's nice to see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT