VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2011
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You lost 6 & 5 to Jiménez but you've topped the group. Explain yourself?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I don't know what's going on here. Yesterday I played poorly. Today I played well. Lost by a substantial distance, and on the yesterday afternoon, I found something nice and today I played -- helped to play as good as I played today.   
  
  Q. In the playoff, all three guys have chance to win or go home, how much pressure do you feel in that situation?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, the putt I had for par, felt more versus over that than I did on 18 at Augusta. But a playoff is never easy. There's no margin for error. Happy I made it.  
  
  Q. How has that Masters win changed your life?   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: By quite a way. It was big. People talk about tournaments changing your life, and you know, I think it does change your life but it's a good feeling.  
  
  Q. What about your prospects for the rest of the week with the key you found in your swing; feeling good?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, today I made five birdies, no bogeys and another birdie in the playoff. I just played really solid. So that gives me a lot of confidence.  
 It's great to play in the World Match Play. I've seen Ernie play it so many times, and I've seen Ernie win it so many times. It's nice to be here in Spain. Looks like the weather is getting better and better. Looking forward to the weekend.   
  
  Q. You lost your opening match yesterday, and you played quite solidly this morning, how was it?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Played much better this afternoon. Yesterday going against Miguel, Miguel played great, didn't make a single bogey and I played badly. That's why I lost by quite a way.   
 This morning, or this afternoon, played so much better, five birdies, no bogeys, that's hard to beat.   
  
  Q. Going into sudden death for your group, was there a lot of attention?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Oh, yes, sudden death, there's always a lot of tension. Especially you have three guys out there, you know someone is going to fall off and you don't want it to be to you. So always a lot of tension. Happy I made it through.   
  
  Q. Looking forward for tomorrow going into the final round, basically?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Oh, yes, I played well this afternoon, and I got a bit of confidence out of it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT