MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Pretty wild afternoon, how do you handle it?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, it was very loud out there today and I thought that Saturday was loud, but today was something else.   
 I think it helped a little bit playing with K.J. Choi, we sort of play similar games. We do our thing and not too much of a hype around it.   
 So it was nice to play with K.J. and I just, from the word go, I got things going really well and things went in my direction. So I'm just really happy.  
  
  Q. Nobody's ever made four consecutive birdies here at Augusta National on the back nine on Sunday. How did you do that?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, I mean, this game's a funny game. Things just happen. Sometimes it sort of just snowballs. But I don't know, I was playing well.   
 I didn't make a birdie from the third hole -- I made eagle, but I didn't make any birdies from there on, but just kept making pars and hitting good shots.   
 And then I saw Adam Scott and Jason Day all of a sudden started getting things going. And I hit a really good tee shot down 15, which only left me with a 6-iron in.   
 And that birdie was big. That got me going out of that par, sort that have par stretch that I had. And you know what, just from there on I just hit really good iron shots. I got my focus, felt really calm, and just hit really good iron shots and gave myself good opportunities and managed to keep the nerves in good spots.  
  
  Q. What was the walk up 18 and the final putt like?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, I've seen it so many times sitting at home, guys walking up the 18th. And just walking up it was such a special feeling, knowing that -- I mean I only had a one-shot lead, so you don't want to get too excited about it, you still got to win the golf tournament. But it just really felt good.   
 That putt I practiced it in the practice round and I said to my caddie, I know it's three balls outside, I'm going to hit it there and see if I can hit it with dead weight because I don't want to leave myself too long and it managed to find the bottom of the hole.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT