MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2011
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. To the fans it's exciting to have a lot of players with a chance to win on Sunday. What's that like for you?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It's just going to be a real exciting day tomorrow. I'm really happy the way I played today. I stuck in there really well when I was in trouble, took my penalties and made really good saves and just sort of kept myself in it. It was always going to be a tough day. Saturday afternoon is never easy around here. The greens were getting firm, and a little bit of wind was making it really interesting. I thought I really did well and really did what I needed to do to give myself a good chance tomorrow.

 Q. How encouraged are you that none of the guys that started the day at the top of the leaderboard have managed to pull away? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Pull away or come forward? 

 Q. None of them have managed to distance themselves. You're right in the hunt. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I mean, at the beginning of the day we teed off -- we were the sixth or seventh last group. I think there was a little bit less expectations because those guys are always going to have a little bit more pressure than what we had. No disrespect to them, but playing out in front there, I don't think you're going to go very far a lot of times unless you really get something going. It was almost nice to tee off where I did and sort of sneak in from behind. That's all I did to be leading by the 72nd hole.

 Q. Coming into this week did you feel your game was at the point where you could play well here?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I did. I've been playing really well since Doral. I felt like I've been striking the ball really good, just not scoring. What that comes down to, I don't know. Sometimes -- I would say it's even more the par saves than it is the birdies that you make because I still made lots of birdies, but just being really good with saving the pars this week. That's what keeps you there. You don't lose momentum. You know, just hitting the ball very good and managing to make a good score out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT