ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2011
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Three bogeys in four holes from the third and you bounce back with a couple of birdies at the end, how do you feel overall about your day?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I'm quite tired right now. I made it very difficult out there today. I hit it well off the tee but very badly from the fairway. Always nice to finish with two birdies and got myself back in it.   
  
  Q. The results have been fantastic last four tournaments you've played and yet you feel your swing is out of kilter, do you?   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, it's bad. There's no way around it. It makes it difficult. Difficult to commit to shots because I don't know where it's going. Maybe with the tee shots, it's a bit easier because the harder I go at it, it seems the better it goes -- I need to control my irons. I need to go work on something.   
 I've run out of ideas. I have sort of an idea, but most of the time, you start getting anxious and getting quick and probably not competing the best way.  
  
  Q. You've taken the option to take your PGA Tour card this year. Tell us about that decision?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I'm very excited about it. I've been in Europe for eight years and love it and I wouldn't leave, but it's a new challenge and opportunities.   
  
  Q. What would be the best word to describe your round today?   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I don't know if there's a word like that in the dictionary. Yeah, I don't know, I struggle because whenever you've got six fives on your scorecard, you know, there's something going wrong. I was good off the tee.   
 I thought I wasn't too bad off the tee, but as soon as I hit a nice, controlled iron shot, came over the top of it and kept looking at it and missing it short-side. On this golf course, that makes your life difficult. What saved me today once again was a steady putting round. It's things like that you need to do to stay in a tournament. If today was going to be my bad one, then I've got some positives to look toward to.  
  
  Q. How do you mentally prepare yourself for a round like that where you're really struggling to hit the greens?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It drains you. Every time you miss it, you try and convince yourself you can get up-and-down. But after missing nine greens, it starts becoming difficult. But you know, we all know this game is such a finicky game. You need to find one little small things that works and all of a sudden you can go from hitting it terrible to hitting it really good.   
 I'm going to go to the range and see if I can find something.   
  
  Q. So if somebody had come up to you in the middle of the round and given you a 71, would you have taken it?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: To be fair, after the second hole, which was my 11th, I was 10-under for the tournament and down the middle on 3, and I actually felt quite comfortable that I could make another decent two birdies there. If you had asked me then, I probably would have said no but after my bogey on five, I'd have taken it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT