WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2010
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Third Round 67 (-5) 211 Total.  
  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Much better today than yesterday. Yesterday I played poorly. Today I played great.   
 But today I just gave myself much more chances and the course is playing really difficult. You know, probably being out early was a slight advantage, but still all in all I thought I played really good today.  
  
  Q. So the iron play was that much better, hitting the greens and getting those chances that way?   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, the course is tough, so you need to hit good iron shots and take advantage of them. The first round I hit good iron shots and never took advantage of one of them. That's the key around here. Got to roll the ball well and hit some good iron shots.   
  
  Q. You might tell me if I'm wrong but it seems a little while since you've been on this kind of surge; it's what we do associate you with, firing loads of birdies?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, I haven't played for a while.   
  
  Q. This is true?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I haven't played for six weeks or so. But yeah, it's always to -- to get on a roll like this, you need to putt well. That's the only way of making these birdies. I have a new putter in the bag this week and seems to be working.   
  
  Q. I take it you felt that you were on a roll at a stage there once the eagle went in?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I was. Once I made that eagle, very easily could have been 8-under. 5, I hit a great putt which lipped out and 7, I gave myself a really good chance and left it hanging over the edge short of the hole. That sort of stuff could have gone better. But all in all it's still a good day. Very pleased.   
 It's difficult out there now. The greens are really quick. Wind is blowing a little bit, and they are firming up. So as long as you can give yourself some sort of outside chance, you never know, maybe you can get on a roll tomorrow, and that's probably what you're going to need.  
  
  Q. You're going to need something very similar and even better probably.   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Funny things happen in this game. So unless Lee or Francesco really gets it going tomorrow -- otherwise, normally the leaders don't go too far. I don't think I'll be far off with a 66.   
  
  Q. In general terms, married life is treating you well?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It's fantastic, thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT