SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 4, 2010
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Charl, you might be one guy who wishes we were still playing here Monday and keep this tournament going. What a great weekend.  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah. It was -- always comes down to the weekend, especially on a course like that where it's windy and it's firm and the greens putt. I said if I could shoot 10-under this week, I'll be close.  
 It looks like it's going to be close. Sit down and watch.  
  
  Q. Great job, though. No bogies. As much wind as there was today, you have to be pretty proud of that.  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I played well today. Hit some good shots, made some good -- one, two good putts with the putter. That's what you need to do to keep yourself going. If you can shoot with no bogies, it's fine.  
  
  Q. The putt at 17 and the putt at 18, the lines have been so good this week. You can fist pump before the ball even got in the bottom of the hole.  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Unbelievable the greens we play on. You see it from everywhere.  
  
  Q. Augusta, have you played it before? Have you been there before? Tell me your preparation for the Masters.  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I went there on Tuesday with Ernie. We went there, which was my first time ever at Augusta. It was fantastic to go around there and see it. He showed me around. So I'm very, very happy that I've seen it in a quiet environment and very looking forward to going there and flying out tonight.  
  
  Q. Good luck to you, and can't have a better guy to show it to you than Ernie.  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Thank you very much.  
  
  Q. Your expectations must be pretty high going into next week, the great start this year and your last three, four weeks over here in the States. Your expectations got to be huge. How do you control that? How do you not try to put too much pressure on yourself?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, like you say, my expectations are high. I do believe I can win if I play the way I am playing. You know, it's a difficult thing. The way I'm approaching it, try not to make it too big. If I can get myself to stay in the present and play as any other golf tournament, and, you know, obviously around Augusta you need to be very patient, and it's sort of what I'm going to try and do. If I play the way I'm playing, I've got a good chance.  
  
  Q. I guess you practiced with Ernie, what's the information that he gives you that you thought something that really stood out?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, I went with Ernie and he showed me around. Some things he pointed out to me, you know. It's difficult to say exactly what it is. Every hole is a little something at Augusta. He gave me good points.  
  
  Q. You obviously enjoyed the golf course and the crowds. I'm assuming you would come back again here next year.  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, definitely. Everyone has been great. I think with the wind they -- the greens weren't as quick as they were on Wednesday. Still, very quick and rolling so smoothly. I like to play the week before a Major.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT