WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6 and 5 first round.  A pretty solid start for you.  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It was good stuff.  We both played fairly rough in the beginning, giving away -- he gave me a hole.  I gave him a hole.  We were up and down.  And then I found my feet.  I started playing really solid and bringing a lot of pressure.  Applying that much pressure I got it done.   
 Q.  Was there a pivotal hole, maybe in the front nine, that got you on your way?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I gave him the second hole, three-putt.  And then he gave it back on No. 6 with a three-putt, which took me back to go 1-up again.  And I made a good up and down on 8.  And that sort of got the momentum going.  And then I won three holes in a row.  Birdied 10.  No. 10 was a killer blow.   
 Q.  What do you like best about this golf course?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I think the fact that you're never out of it.  It's so undulating.  And you get so many bounces, especially when it gets firm.  It's a really good match play course.   
 Q.  Finally, you have a second match in today.  Branden Grace won the first match.  Two South Africans to get going.  What makes you such good match players?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I don't know, maybe our competitiveness.  But I think we have a great player to look up to in match play.  Ernie was phenomenal.  So we have big footsteps to follow.   
I gave him No. 2 with a three-putt, and he gave it back to me on No. 6.  And from there I played really solid and kept applying pressure.  I made the right putts at the right time.  I just sort of snuggled up and it was a nice win for me.   
 Q.  When you see somebody not playing as well, do you just apply the pressure and not give them anything?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Definitely.  I played it so well, I just kept hitting really good shots and applying a lot of pressure.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Maybe, I don't know.   
 Q.  Players talk about to win 6 & 5 you need 1-under --  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: That's the thing.  Like I said, I didn't play that well in the beginning but afterwards I made the shots I needed to hit.  And I was backing off and just hitting sort of shots in the fairway, on the green and applying a lot of pressure, because it made him force the issue.  And he sort of kept making mistakes.   
 Q.  You said you can learn a lot about your opponent during match play.  What did you learn?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It's just a matter of that he was off early on.  And so, like I said, it's just a matter of I was driving well, and I figured if I could just keep doing that, with him being a little rattled, that would make matters worse.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT