PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2009
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your reflections on the day, if you would?   
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: Well, what's not to smile after 65. I played pretty well today. I putted -- I think I putted better than yesterday. Made a few nice ones on these bumpy greens today, and that's what you need to do on a course where the scoring is as low. You need to make a few putts, and I did that and I've hit the ball well, so good position.   
 You can easily start missing a few putts and get down on yourself, because everyone is making. Every time you look on the leaderboard, someone is making a birdie. So it was nice to make a couple of birdies, and No. 14 probably kept the momentum going. Could have easily made a bit of a disaster there.   
  
  Q. So we are now only edging to halfway but you were looking at leaderboards, fully conscious of Francesco's round?   
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: When I teed off, I saw 15-under and I thought, that's pretty good going. And you know, the score is out there. It definitely is, especially on the back nine, you can make a lot of birdies once you get going.   
  
  Q. I don't know if pressure is the word but it tells you you've got to shoot low, doesn't it, when you've started.   
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: You have to, but you've got to keep it -- you can't sort of get ahead of yourself. If you're going to start pushing at it too hard, then they are going to disappear. So you've just got to keep hitting good shots, hitting good putts, and if they go in, they do go in. If they don't, they don't.   
  
  Q. What happened at the last?   
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: I just slightly came off my tee shot. I wanted to hit it down the right side but maybe pushed it a few yards right. Wasn't too bad in the bunker but probably too much club. I thought I hit a pretty good shot out of the bunker. Pitched long and wasn't quite the way I wanted to finish my day, but you know, looking back the other 17 holes were pretty good.   
  
  Q. You're in an excellent position to the weekend, where you want to be.   
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: Definitely. Well, 14, my tee shot was actually further right than Niclas was but he pitched into the bank and I pitched on top. Got a huge bounce forward and when I got there, I saw they shaved the edge on the water and I thought I was going in and I was actually in the footprint but from the side I could hit it, I could actually hit the ball.  
 So, I thought, well, first I thought I might as well take a drop but then decided to hit it, because I can actually get club on ball. Hit it to the front edge and either chip-and-putt or 2-putt from there. And it was so soft it was a joke; the ball just hardly got out and I thought it was going to go back in and then I had to take my shoes off. Then it got ugly. And then actually made a very good four there, barefoot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT