PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2009
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Charl, what do you think was a good score on the course before you teed off today? 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: Well, I knew there was a low score out there. Just in the Pro-Am, I shot 64. So I mean, the course -- 

 Q. So you're getting worse. 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: I'm getting worse (chuckling). No, I'm very happy with my start, very solid but I played very well. Hit one bad shot all day, that was basically on the 12th hole, hit a 4-iron in the water and made six. Other than that, it was pretty flawless. The greens are quite soft so you can go at a few flags.

 Q. How much does this course suit a long hitter? 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: Well, it is quite a long golf course. I think a long hitter does have quite an advantage. You know, to be fair, I think the fairways are fairly wide, too. So the further you can get it out there, the more of an advantage.

 Q. Bring us up-to-date with your club situation. One of the world airlines lost it last week. 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: I flew Lufthansa from Manchester to Madrid and they left them in Frankfurt. According to them, they loaded it on the airplane but I never received them. So someone's got my clubs or they are somewhere, not sure. 

 Q. How hard was it adjusting playing with, or were you able to get the set?
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: Last week I borrowed a set from a couple of guys, from James Kingston, so last week I just sort of found a way to get it around the golf course. This week, Nike made me a set again. Got their new driver out, and I'm actually doing I think a little bit better. Definitely further.

 Q. So when you get a new set, how perfectly matched is it to what you had? Do you notice the difference? 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: There's a few little things. Your wedges is always difficult to adjust to, and especially the putter. Those little things -- the irons to me are pretty much the same. The irons I've got in the bag now and the ones that I had previously, they feel the same. So luckily that's not too big of an adjustment. The way I putted today, it was fine.
 It was nice to play with my own irons again, or similar to what I'm used to. Felt like I played very good. Like I say, one poor shot on 12 basically all day. Other than that was pretty flawless.

 Q. I'm sure you can have your own set of clubs, new set whenever you want them but to have a brand new set must be a nice feeling, as well. 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: I must say, new grooves, new irons, new grips, new shoes, everything is new. 

 Q. So you haven't had to borrow James Kingston's this week?
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: No. Got my own on this week. Going to make my own luck.

 Q. Is there any update on what has happened to the old clubs? 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: As far as I've heard, they told me they are gone. The airline, Lufthansa, said they lost them. Not exactly sure where they are right now.

 Q. Imagine you like this place given the score you shot today. 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: I do. It's some weather like South Africa here, so what's not to like. 

 Q. And the breeze can pick up here but that was ideal, wasn't it? 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, on Tuesday, Wednesday, the wind was quite strong. I expected it to pick up this afternoon again but looks like it's going to be a perfect, all-around day.

 Q. Talk us through a couple of the highlights out there. 
 CHARLES SCHWARTZEL: I thought the 7th hole was a pretty good birdie, got a par 4 there over 500 yards, driver, 6-iron to six inches. Yeah, that was pretty special. 
 Started off well this morning. Birdie, birdie always gets you on the go. 
 All in all, it was a pretty solid day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT