BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHARL SCHWARTZEL: With nine birdies, I played really well. Just had a few really mental errors, I would say, with the bogeys. You know, I made nine birdies and I putted very well today. I said to my caddie, if we get to eight, we're in with a chance tomorrow.

 Q. Was it not as difficult with less breeze; this place is known for a swirling wind. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It was easier to pick clubs out today. It's basically dead out there now. You could get some good shots in there. 

 Q. You've played a dozen tournament this is year and some good results and Top-10s, and tremendous consistency. You have not missed a cut. Do you feel like you're playing the best golf of your life?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I've been playing very consistent. That's what I've been working on. I started doing a bit of work with a trainer, just trying to get the body more consistent really week-in and week-out. It seems to be working. And I'm working on the game, working on the right things, and it feels really good.
 So it feels close.

 Q. How do you feel about your prospects for tomorrow? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Really good. I'm playing really well. I just made a few really bad mental errors out there today which cost me. If I can keep my focus and concentration tomorrow and play the way I'm playing, could give a good charge. 

 Q. Was there any particular birdies of length out there? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Third hole I hit in the fairway bunker, 4-iron out and made about a 25-footer, which any day you are making par, you are gaining on the field and I made birdie. 
 I made a great birdie on 15, and then we had 240 yards in there for two. Hit 4-iron to 12-foot and made birdie, which that's another hole which you're gaining a few shots on the field. 
 So probably those two stick out the most. 

 Q. And the last?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Last is a good 3-wood, rescue down there. Same drop zone from where I chipped in from the first day and came up just short today. So that's not a bad place to miss it there.

 Q. Nice way to end? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, birdie, birdie finish around this course, today I got those two birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT