BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHARL SCHWARTZEL: 5-under on the back makes the score much better. Played really solid the front nine, didn't make any putts. My bogey came from a 3-putt on 7.   
 Then close on 11. Made a birdie. Close on 12, the par 5 there, made birdie. Next hole, close, birdie.   
 Then all of a sudden, it got going, so I was 2-under and hit a couple of good shots coming in. Missed a short birdie on 17 there.   
 But 18 made up for that, a nice little chip-in.   
  
  Q. And when that happens at 18 and you hear that kind of roar, I take it that you feel involved in the tournament?   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: All of a sudden, it's only first round, but I mean, I think by the end of the day, it will be right up there.   
 The course is not playing easy. It's tough and not an easy golf course, very happy with my little 68 there.   
  
  Q. Retief was talking about the difficulty in advance of the opening holes. I guess they are playing tricky, aren't they.   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Very much so. You could see as I was looking at the scores, everybody seems to be making their birdies on the back nine. That front nine is tough. You have to hit some really good shots to make birdies, even to make pars; that first hole, I hit driver, 3-iron, so it's very difficult starting off.   
 If you can just hold on, hold on, hold on, and then during the back nine, you've got those three par 5s, and you never know. That's where you have to make your score.   
  
  Q. Are you back in the swing of things now after your African adventures? You said the right things that you wanted to be back, but you didn't seem like you really were into it.  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I'm happy to be back. It was a great trip but now it's time for business.   
  
  Q. Has it taken a little time to get back into the swing of things?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Quicker than I thought. Quicker than I thought. I thought it was going to be a little more difficult to get back into it after two months lay-off, but I think my performance in Spain helped get me going. That started off nice lie and that just kicks up the confidence. As we know, this game is only confidence really.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT