QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 27, 2008
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 7-under on the back nine, your front nine.   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yes, unbelievable there. I obviously hit the ball very good. Made a lot of putts and you know, seven birdies, quickly.   
 On 10 I was very tempted to go for it. Ended up hitting 9-iron off the tee, sand wedge to six-foot and made birdie.   
 Next hole, down the fairway, 9-iron to 12-foot, made birdie.   
    
  Q. You just built up a head of steam.   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I just hit proper golf shots. I was in the fairways, which on this course is a must. Made a couple more birdies, and then birdieing 18 was quite a big birdie. That's probably a shot on the field at least.   
 And then the back nine, well the front nine, of course my back nine, I felt like I played actually pretty much the same as I did on the front side. Just drew a bad lie on No. 4, and struggled to get a 9-iron up on the green and came out very bad and had a double there, which wasn't that nice.  
 But other than that, it was actually a pretty solid round of golf.  
    
  Q. A number of times, you get on a roll and you seem to be one of those players that does get the momentum in your favour; some get a bit more conservative if the birdies are going in, and you don't.  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: This golf course, especially the back nine, the front nine we played today, there is a lot of birdies out there. There's really -- there's a couple, all you have to do is be in the fairway, and you know, that's what I did.   
 So I'm never hitting much more than wedges in. On the par 4s and par 5s, you can reach, and on the tough holes like 18, you can just fire them. You can walk off with a really good nine holes, and birdieing was a bonus.  
    
  Q. Good to get finished, as well?  
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I said to Simon walking down the last, hoping we can get it finished. Some guys have still got eight, nine holes left and have probably another two hours of golf left tomorrow. So I can go and have a nice sleep and lie-in.   
    
  Q. How disruptive has it been for you this week?   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I've actually been pretty fortunate with the draw I think. I've been on the right side, and had a morning tee time on Friday which had the fog delay and I still managed to finish my round. Some guys that went out this morning and afternoon yesterday and had to finish this morning, and probably half of them are not going to finish tonight. Those guys have quite a few very early mornings.   
 Yeah, I think I've been fortunate with the draw so far.   
    
  Q. I know a lot can change because there's so many players still out there. You must feel that you're in a fine position into the Sunday.   
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Like I said today I hit the ball really well. The day before, as well. You know, it's just today, I was hitting it close enough and I was making some putts. You know, it's going to be close. I think by the end of tomorrow, you know that if you can get, I don't know, probably a number of 10, 11, it's going to be very close. So we'll see. It's out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT