BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2008
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I played really well, I was really solid and the course is not really easy out there. Obviously this morning, there is a little dew on the greens but I was good off the tee. 

 Q. You don't have the best of records around Wentworth but you clearly found something out there today. What was kicking?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I don't know. You know, it's a different course from what I've played in the last four years. It's the firmest I've ever played it, so I was hitting a lot of irons and 3-woods just to keep myself in play. That's my biggest struggle around this course is to get comfortable off the tee. Once I'm off the tee, I'm fine.

 Q. You did have a nice run starting on the 11th to go 5-under through a stretch of four holes; you were on fire. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I don't know what happened there. I birdied 11, eagled 12, birdied 13, birdied 14. Didn't seem like it was going to stop. 
 You know, it was nice. The first nine I actually played really well. 

 Q. Do tell me about a good start, if you would. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, it's not been the best of tracks for me. Obviously today I played quite well. I feel like I really played solid tee-to-green. A couple of bad shots here and there, but it's bound to happen. You know, made a few nice putts which I've been struggling a lot the last few weeks.

 Q. And then the eagle and birdies on the back nine?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, 5-under, that's always welcome. Like I said, I made a lot of good shots. 13, two good shots and made the putt and then made a really good putt on 14. Just trying to 2-putt from there. 

 Q. You intimated that things have not gone your way here in the past; I was surprised to see those figures for the last few visits, but what's made the difference? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I don't know, you know, the course is as hard as I've ever played. It's normally very wet and the greens get worn out; where now, they are firm and they don't get worn out as much as they normally do.
 You know, I get opportunity with irons off the tee and the balls are running in the fairways, so it's just one of those courses where I haven't felt very comfortable on it. There are some courses where you stand on the tee and just feel like, oh, this is the shot; but this is the opposite for me. 
 Like I said, hit a couple irons, get it in the fairway and go from there.

 Q. I take it there was a fair bit more comfort today and it's the kind of comfort and knowledge that you can take into the rest of the event. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, for sure. Obviously I haven't played well here the last five years that I've come here, but you learn. You learn, and I feel like I'm hitting the ball good, as well, better than I have been in the past. So it also adds up.

 Q. How do you reflect on the whole season so far? Must have been a few events and a fair bit of travelling, as well. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I'm happy so far. I had a good run in the beginning of the year. I had a long break during March, April and now just came back for the last -- this is my fourth event back. I haven't got off to the best of starts right now, but I haven't played bad. It's just one of those cases where I haven't got it going yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT