DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 29, 2006
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just sum up the day.  You're still very much in the tournament.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Yeah, for sure.  I'm very happy with today's round.  I enjoyed playing out there with Retief, spoke a bit of Afrikaans.

It's good, I felt like I hit the ball well, same as the last two days.  I left a few putts out there, but overall I'm very satisfied.
Q.  As you say, it was nice to play with a fellow South African.  Felt a little bit like home perhaps?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  For sure.  You can speak Afrikaans.  It's nice to play with someone like Retief with a lot of experience like that, and to have competed with him out there today, that gives me quite a bit of confidence.
Q.  Did you know him growing up or were you too young, just when you got on Tour?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  No, he actually played I think a few amateur tournaments with my dad, but I only started knowing him when I came onto Tour.
Q.  A good finish, you drove it short at 14 but then birdied the two par 5s and you're right back in it.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  With a silly drop on the 14th, the par 3.  I hit a really bad chip shot.  Then came back strong with a birdie on 15 and 17.  It's always good to finish on a high note.
Q.  There's still a lot of birdies.  What are your thoughts for tomorrow, just attack?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Yeah, keep it the same as today.  The guys are not going to come to you, you have to go to them on a course like this.  You need birdies out there.  If I keep hitting the ball like I'm hitting it, I'm going to give myself a lot of opportunities.  You're bound to make a few, so we'll see what happens.
Q.  Give us the details of your two birdies at the end.  What did you do on 15?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  15, I hit driver, 4 iron just off the green.  I hit a good chip to two foot, made it.

17, I hit driver, 3 wood, pulled a 3 wood left of the bunker, hit a good little pitch shot over the bunker to three, four foot, made that one.
Q.  What did you hit for your second shot at the last?  It almost looked as if you had holed your putt there.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Yeah, I thought it was going to go in.  Sort of at the last break it sort of went to the right.  I had a few of those out there today.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT