DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2006
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Well done.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Thank you.
Q.  That seemed to be one of those rounds when just nothing went wrong.  It was terrific.  Even the bad shots turned out to be good ones.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  There weren't a lot of bad shots out there today.  I really hit the ball very well today.  Early on I made a nice putt on the 1st hole for par, which sort of actually got me going.  It was like a 15 footer for par.  I birdied the next, eagled the next, and all of a sudden off you go.

I just played solid for me.  I never, never looked like making any mistakes.  I made a few good putts.  18 here was a nice putt.  I made a nice one on No. 8, as well, just sort of to keep the round going.

You know, overall 64 is nothing to laugh about.
Q.  It's not a bad round at all.  I don't know if I'm reading too much into this, but it seems something about the stride, the sense of purpose around the course today, you just seemed very confident as if things would work in your favor?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I'm very confident.  I'm playing well.  There's no reason for me to go out there and be negative about things.  I mean, it could have easily turned into a 62 today.  At 15 and 17 I was at the greenside and all I needed was to chip and putt for birdies, and I didn't get it up and down.  I've got to look at the positives, much more positives out there than negatives.
Q.  There were so many positives for you and for everyone with the low scores in abundance.  I have to ask whether the course is easy.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I would say it is easy.  There's no rough out there.  We had pretty good conditions today.  There was just a light breeze.  The fairways were pretty hard, they were firm, so the ball is rolling.  The course is playing actually quite short.  It's out there to make a low score, that's for sure.
Q.  Do you set a target of what could be the winning mark here?  Others have said that it's going to be 20 under par at least.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I would say at least 20 under.  I would think    13 under is leading now, so I would say at least 23 under.  If you go 23 under    to shoot 4  or 5 under a round if you're playing good is not that difficult.
Q.  I think you'll relish this position going into the weekend.  You're in a good position to challenge.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Very good position.  It's nice actually to be one or two shots behind, sort of chasing rather than leading.  You know, being in a position like I am now, I'm here with a chance.
Q.  Do you feel the win is around the corner?  The form is good.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  A win is around the corner I would say.  It feels good.  I'm playing well, I've just got to stay patient.  I really feel confident out there.  If I can keep that sort of attitude going, I think it can't be far away.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT