BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2006
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Charl, you could have mistaken Loch Lomond for South Africa given the conditions today. Well played.  A great back nine of 30.  Tell us about your back nine.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I nearly plugged it in the bunker for two on 14 but got it out and made a 20 footer for par and that turned it around, because if I had made bogey there, it would have been quite disappointing.

And birdied the next and 17 and 18.  So I had a hard side coming in.  I hit the ball well but definitely the putting.
MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Must good to be in contention again?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  It's been a while.  I played well at the beginning of the year.  Started off really well and sort of the last month, month and a half, been struggling with the game a little bit.  Worked with Pete Cowen last week and he found something and it just sort of clicked in.  I hit the ball really good last week but didn't manage to make any putts.  As I say I changed my putter this week and I continued my ball striking and threw go.
Q.  Why do you think South Africans do so well here?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I think this golf course is a lot like the golf courses we have back home.  It's got actually quite wide fairways and suits our eye.  I love it.  This is my fourth year here and I really enjoy the golf course.  If we can get weather like we've got, it's the same as playing at home.
Q.  Have you done well here before?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I played well here my first year.  I finished I think it was eighth or ninth, I'm not sure.  That actually got me into it the next year and the last two years I haven't played too well but I played well my first year.
Q.  Have you changed to a shorter putter or anything?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  No, I just changed another putter.  It's a standard length, 35 inch.  It's the same one like Henrik Stenson uses.  I saw him putting and I thought, well, that looks nice so I went and got one.
Q.  You don't go for the wider stance/shorter stroke theory or anything?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  No, I actually putted with the claw for a while but then changed it last week for the last round and I putted normal, which I am doing this week as well.
Q.  Is your next goal to win outside of South Africa?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  That's definitely my goal to get a win.  I've played well in South Africa.  I've had a few good wins in Europe but I'm starting to feel much more comfortable playing in Europe.  So if I continue the way I'm playing, I don't think it will be long.
Q.  What kind of putter did you switch to?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  A White Hot No. 5, Odyssey.
Q.  Were you at Hoylake last Monday?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Yes, I was.
Q.  How is the course playing?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  It's good.  It's very firm.  The golf course is very firm.  Think if the wind is going to blow, it's going to be hard on a few of those fairways.  The rough wasn't that bad.  It looks bad but it's not.  It's not as severe.  So I think it's pretty low scoring.
Q.  Did you enjoy the US Open?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Oh, that was fantastic.  Nice golf course.  I thought everything was in front of you.  You could see it.  Nowhere where you hit the ball in the fairway and it goes off.  If you miss the fairway you got penalized.  But if you hit the fairways and hit the greens, you could play well.
Q.  Inaudible?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Also I think you play well when the weather conditions are more like what I'm used to.  I haven't got enough weight and I guess get blown away by the wind.  I grew up in J'oburg, so if the weather is like this, I can perform.
MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT