ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2006
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I hit the ball very good the last two days.  My ball striking has been good, I've been keeping it in play, hitting fairways, hitting greens, and I'm putting good, too.  I'm trying just to play for pars and when you get your birdie opportunities, just try to make them and that's been happening.  I made a nice eagle on the tenth, a nice 25 footer there which always helps. I feel like I'm playing well.
Q.  You played well in the wind, so it was a help and not a hindrance?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I don't like the wind but I see to play well in the wind.I think it makes you think a little bit.  Makes you think about your shots more than when it's dead calm and you just kind of go and hit it, and now you've got to think about it.
Q.  Keith Horne said virtually the same thing yesterday?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Well unlike Keith I didn't grow up on the coast, I was in Johannesburg and we're used to calm conditions. But when you play on The European Tour you get used to playing in wind.
Q.  Some said this course is like Doha where you have done well in the past?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Yes I have had a few good tournaments there but I thought this was a lot like Dubai, the look of it, but the wind is definitely like Doha.
Q.  You had a good run in the last couple of weeks as well in terms of The European Tour, the form is there?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Yeah, I've played well.  I seem to well towards the end of the year, beginning of the year.  I've had a long time off now, three and a half weeks before this tournament just started practicing the week before this tournament and it's carried over.  It feels like I'm playing still the same golf as I did before Christmas.
Q.  What do you expect from here on?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Well we are only at halfway. I'm going to just keep doing what I'm doing.  As long as I stay calm, and I'm very calm out there, relaxed, I think my game is there.  I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT