THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 29, 2020
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but I feel like at the beginning of the year you were talking about the wrist, not knowing how much you'd be able to play or your ability to play that much this year, right?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Last year. Phoenix/Scottsdale was my first PGA TOUR event for nine months. I had a few warmup events in South Africa, and yeah, I mean, in South Africa it hurt me. It was still hurting. But as soon as I came out from Phoenix, it started feeling -- I didn't feel anything. And it's been fantastic ever since.   
 Q.  But it was hurting recently in South Africa, like as recently as December?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, the South African Open, it was niggles. It wasn't enough to stop me from playing, but I could feel it. But yeah, it feels like it's gone. I hope it's gone.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be in this position, a chance to get a TOUR win possibly?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I feel good. My game feels really good, and body and health feels good. It's trying to get yourself comfortable having been out of the game for so long. I thought I did a really good job today. I thought I was really good today out there. I played well, made a stupid decision on 16, but hit good shots after that and kept going. It's a tough golf course.   
 Q.  What did you try to hit out of the bunker on 16?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: 8-iron. I hit the shot -- I hit it a little thin, caught the top of the lip. But even if I pulled it off, it wasn't a very good shot.   
 Q.  What did you hit on 16 yesterday?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: 5-iron.   
 Q.  In terms of getting comfortable again, is it kind of like riding a bike, once you hit a groove --  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, it's just hitting good shots when you need to and making the putts when you need to. It's just getting comfortable, and I'm on the front side of the leaderboard.   
 Q.  What's your mindset going into tomorrow in this position?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: The course is tough. I feel like if I do what I did today and I can feel as comfortable as I did today, I have a good chance of playing really well.   
 Q.  With the leaderboard being so packed and things can change so quickly on this course, does it make it easier to focus on what you need to do rather than worrying about other people?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, this course has got -- there's danger on every hole. I think it's a course you least need to look at the leaderboard. You focus on yourself and you grind it out on every shot, and tomorrow I think it'll be a tougher course. The greens are firm, wind is blowing. Even on some putts, the wind blows the putt more than what the slope takes it. There's a lot of factors to take into account.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT