DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2016
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHARL SCHWARTZEL: That was a nice, solid round.  I've been feeling like I've been due for some good rounds, and today started off actually a little mediocre the first few holes but made three great putts on the first three holes, and you know, that was enough to keep my momentum going for the rest of the day.  When you feel like that, you always feel like you can shoot a lot lower than what you actually did.
Q. So signals that you got through something that's hard work and then you can freewheel a little bit.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It's nice to shoot a good score for a change.  I've been playing where I walk off shooting level pars or 1-unders or 2-unders, and there's nothing wrong with it, but I've been really playing better than that.  So it became a little bit of a hurdle but to shoot a nice number today was nice.
Q. I know you said about Sun City that you enjoy going back home, but the course doesn't necessarily set up for you.  How does this course set?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, that's the reason I came.  After Sun City last week, I didn't feel like really continuing my year anymore.  But this week and Dunhill is two of the weeks that really suit me well and I've played well before.  Sun City, lovely week, but the course gets to me a little bit.  But I'm happy to be here this week.
Q. Sounds like a state of mind, as well, just knowing that somewhere suits you.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It is, it's just if you've been around as long as I've played, then you start figuring out which ones you do like more than others, and it's just how it is.
Q. It's only the halfway stage, but what do you fancy you'll need to do over the weekend?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I mean, so many good players up on the board.  Definitely got to keep making birdieing and keep shooting these sort of scores that I've shot.  You need good weekends to win golf tournaments and that's just the nature of it.  So that's what we're planning to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT