THE 145TH OPEN
July 17, 2016
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about today.  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I had some really good stuff and some really poor stuff.  I'm a little disappointed.  The weather was good for us coming down the back nine.  I made four bogeys from No. 5 to No. 9, which really put a halt to a good round for me.  Got off to a great start, what I wanted.  Didn't hit particularly that bad of shots, just got cold with the putter and it sort of snowballed.   
I'm disappointed with that, but in the big scheme of things, you know, I'm getting better at playing at The Open.  We'll come back next year and think about the experience that I've got from this and see if we can improve.   
 Q.  You spoke about it the whole week about trying to play (Inaudible).  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, just particular little things.  Maybe little feelings that I had.  The way to hit the ball.  I got it right a few times to hit the ball at 60% of my power, and I had a lot more control that way.  I realised that I needed to shape it also a few times and that's what suits me.  So there's a few little things that I feel like I had more control.  The Open is always going to be sort of the luck of the bounce in a lot of ways, but that I'm also learning and accepting a lot better.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  You had mentioned coming over for Scottish and trying to get some links golf in before.  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I'm going to definitely think about it.  I'll see.  I do my schedule a lot on how I feel coming up to the events.  I get really good results out of practising also the week before.  I get good at that as well.  But this tournament I might have to come a week earlier and practise somewhere here.   
 Q.  Is there something specific (Inaudible).  Playing links golf?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I mean, if you want to win The Open, that's what you're going to have to do.  It's one tournament a year, but it is one of these majors.  It's one that I would like to win.  The Claret Jug is something special.   
 Q.  Now to the PGA Championship, you return to more familiar surroundings?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, it's going to take a week to go build the swing back up to what it has been.  You do get some bad habits out of a week like this, but I'm sure it won't take me too long.  I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT