THE 145TH OPEN
July 16, 2016
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It seems rough out there and a tough day.  How was it?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, it was difficult.  The back nine was really harsh.  I was unfortunate on the second hole.  Got a very bad lie on the bunker, plugged and you couldn't even get it out.  So I made a really good six at the end from the middle of the fairway.   
On the front nine it was a nine that you needed to get some score of score going, so I had to just fight back really off the second hole.  Made a really good comeback, but I lost shots on 10 and 11, which are really hard holes.  But to me the sour point of the day was number 15 at the middle of the fairway with the 3-iron.  I hit it right and ended up out of bounds.  I didn't even know it was out of bounds.  It was just right at the tee box.  That was a hard pill to swallow, but I kept coming back, and I felt like I played decent for the majority of the day.  It's just difficult.  It's cold and the back nine with this wind, man, you're just holding on.   
 Q.  Some of the clubs today hitting into some of those holes, were you finding it really, really tough?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, you hit your best drivers and your best 2-irons just to get to a par-4.  It's tough, yeah.  But it's the same for everyone that's coming in now.  I think just the temperature is dropping a little bit and the wind has definitely picked up.  It's a tough finish.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) is there a little extra pressure (Inaudible).  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, it did when I made double on 2, then it became quite a thing.  But it's not like the front nine is a pushover.  You still need to make good shots.  But definitely when you get any sort of wind behind you on this golf course it makes it a lot easier.  The back nine with the wind into you, this sort of wind to me I think is the most difficult this course plays.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, for me I'm really pleased with the way I've played.  Irrelevant of what happens tomorrow, I'm just trying to get a good finish.  But this is -- by far the biggest struggle for me is this tournament.  I'm trying everything in the book just to be able to be some way consistent, and that's what I find so hard.  Any other tournament my golf swing falls into a slot and I can do with the ball what I like.  But this tournament I hit shots where I just like, it feels like I just started playing the game.  So this is a big challenge for me.  And I feel like I am getting better at it as the years are going on.   
 Q.  Do you feel there is a progression in your game?  (Inaudible).  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, you know, The Open last year I finished bad.  I was one shot ahead of Zach Johnson going into the final round.  He finished first, I finished 58th (laughing).  But, again, I played well at St. Andrews.  For three days I was right there.  There's been a few Opens that I've actually sort of -- but it just feels like I've got to work so much harder, you know?   
But in a way I enjoy the challenge of it.  When I succeed like I did yesterday, playing like I did yesterday, that's very satisfying.  It sort of shows you that there is some sort of way.  It's just you've got to play it more and experience it more.  I don't know.  Maybe I've got to come out and play the week before as well like Phil does and maybe that way you can find something.  You need something that you can repeat the whole time, and at this stage it's getting better, but there are some shots out there that like "whoa!"   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT