THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It's a lot more difficult today than it obviously was yesterday.  Going out 9 was not the prevailing wind, as I understand.  We've been playing it all down off the right, and it's got up there this morning, and we're a south, southwest wind, which made the front nine really difficult.  On this golf course, I feel the back nine is normally the one that's the most difficult.  So I was hoping if I could play well going out, that I've got a good chance of shooting a good score.
But I was very pleased.  I played my best golf going out, and got to the turn and it really started raining hard.  It was difficult.  Even though we had downwind on the back nine, it was very hard to get the ball close.  The ball is sliding and skidding on the greens.  So I'm just personally very pleased with the way that I've played.  Playing The Open in bad weather is definitely my biggest challenge.
Q. Can you talk about the first two rounds and your approach to how you played yesterday.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I played well yesterday.  Yesterday just overall because there was no wind, the golf course was there for the taking.  You could shoot a low score yesterday.  Unfortunately, well, I played well going out and then when I made the turn I hit two loose shots on 10 and 11 and that cost me three shots.  If I take that away, I actually played fairly decent golf.
So I'm very happy with the way I actually came back.  I was 3-over at one point yesterday, not looking too good.  And to be standing here at 4-under to get myself back in the tournament, that's very pleasing.
Q. How did you play 1 yesterday?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yesterday, driver on 1, a good drive to the green.  Today like 2-iron and 7-iron.  Very different.
Q. How bad was it out there?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It's hard.  This morning it was cold.  The wind wasn't as strong, but it still affected the ball a lot.  On the first hole I had 142 yards for my second, and I hit 7-iron.  7-iron is a 190-yard club for me.  So it's a 50-yard differential that I took into account.  Going out all the way, you're basically taking in all of those things.  So that was very difficult.
Then obviously with the rain coming back it's a challenge.  We're not used to it.  In America if it starts raining, you get called off the golf course.  Here you play.
Q. (Inaudible).
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: New clubs.  Started trying them out on Sunday.  Got a full set on Tuesday.  Off we went.
Q. (Inaudible).
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Not really.  I felt very pleased within myself, and I needed to do something that made me happy.  So if I'm happy, I'm going to play well.
Q. What do you do for the rest of the day now?  Do you sit back and watch what's going on here or what do you get up to?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Watch the boys struggle out there.  Hope the wind blows and hope it rains (laughing).
Q. Changing clubs, what was that decision about?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It was just a mutual decision.  I was with Nike for nine years, for most of my career.  I achieved a lot with them and very thankful for that.  But it just came time for a change.
Q. And timing going into The Open Championship (inaudible).
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Not at all.  Like I said, I felt comfortable.  I wouldn't have changed if I wasn't comfortable.  But as long as I'm comfortable, I'm happy and I know I can play well.
Q. (Inaudible).
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, a company with great ambition, and I was very happy with the way the product looks and the way it felt and the way I could hit shots.  You know, it's just given me a little bit of freedom.
Q. Did you speak to anybody else about PXG before you got involved with them?  They're not really mainstream.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, well, if you're going into a change you're going to ask around and look around.  Fortunately I play with Louis and I play with Brendon, and one is Ping and one is Callaway.  You know, I've hit their clubs before.  I just figured that this company is new.  They're really hungry and they want to make a big step in the game.  It seemed like a good fit for me at this stage.
Q. Lastly you mentioned trying to hit it a little easier, especially on Tuesday.  Is that one of the reasons why you're so successful today (inaudible) is you hit it a little easier?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It helped me a lot today.  I played with him a few times, and Louis kept saying, "Hit it softer.  Hit it softer.  You're hitting it too hard."  And today was probably the best I've played in these sort of conditions because I kept my tempo at the right place, and I was able to control the ball flight and the distance well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT