AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 9, 2020
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm here with Schwartzel right now. Back-to-back birdies to finish your round. What was that like out there for you to finish?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, you know, we were just hanging on. The wind was so strong. We had 180 yards on 17 and hit pitching wedge. You know, it was really, really difficult today. I thought hitting the ball was okay but trying to putt, it was hard. So today was, I think, a day of survival.
Q. It was, but you might just finish in the top-5. How does that make you feel?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well I need it. I'm playing on a medical exemption, so I need to -- I have limited starts, but this is a good way to start.
Q. You said this is your first time playing at Pebble Beach and in this tournament -- or first time playing in this tournament rather. What did you think of the set up and playing with the amateurs?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I loved it. Couldn't have chosen a better week. The weather was really good the first three days. Today was good but just windy. Yeah, you know, if it's like this, I'm back every year.
Q. How did the conditions affect what you wanted to do today?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, it was hard. I thought that -- hitting the ball was I thought the easiest part, but putting on these greens and approach shots with the greens being so firm was so hard to get the ball close. And even if you did hit it to 5 or 6 feet, it was no gimmie.
Q. The leaders were struggling. Were you keeping cognizant of the struggles atop of the leaderboard?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I was disappointed with my three bogeys because I felt like I made them out of nowhere on the beginning of the back nine. No, I wasn't thinking that I could win. But when I finished I looked up at the leaderboard and I see the guys are coming back at a quick pace.
Q. What were some of the toughest shots you faced out there, just yardage and wind and all that?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, it's just hard. It's gusty. So you've got a direction, but if it changes and if it gusts, just to hit a good golf shot or a predictable golf shot was a little bit of luck. Like, give you an example, 17 was 180 yards, it's a 7-iron normally for me. We hit wedge. It's just, how do you predict that, where it's going to be. It ended up good for me. But it's just, you know, sometimes days like these are fun, you got to take it for what it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT