NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2016
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the day?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It was a bizarre round.  I felt very sleepy this morning, and making a double-bogey woke me up very quickly.  It was from the middle of the fairway, too.  I didn't feel like I did much wrong.  But it's one of those holes that you get it in the wrong side, it eats you up quickly.
Then played really phenomenal golf from there up until the turn.  I made eagle on 1 and felt like I was on the front foot and felt like I was going to shoot right up the board.  I had a bit of a misfortune on the second.
Q. What happened on the second?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I pulled it slightly left.  Still pitched in the fairway, but the next bounce was on the cart path.  Cart path went on to the fence, and obviously that's an out-of-bounds fence, so you couldn't get relief.  So I tried to play -- sort of just chop it a yard or two out so I could hit it next.  As I hit it, it went into the ground, bounced up and hit my hand.  Yeah, I wasn't in a very good mood after that.  I hooked it out to just short of the green and chipped it up to about three feet and missed the putt.
I thought it was a two-shot penalty, but called a rules official, said it was one shot.  So made 7.  And then bounced back with a whole bunch of birdies.  Birdied 3, birdied 4, which is a great birdie.  Birdied 6 and 7.  Then I made bogey on 8.
Q. What did you hit on 4?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: 3-iron.
Q. How close did you hit that?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I got it to about 15 feet.
Q. So obviously you won last week, coming here, your expectations must be pretty high.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I feel really good.  Those two holes was just out of the blue.  I haven't -- I don't feel like I did that much wrong with them, and if it wasn't for them, I'd probably be top of the leaderboard again.  I feel very good.  I feel like I'm in control of the game.  I'm just happy that I came back after all that on the second and at least give myself some sort of chance going into the weekend.  If I can keep playing well, keep making birdies, still a lot of holes left.
Q. It's got to be a good sign when you're piling up the birdies.  Misfortunes aside, it's better than --
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: When it's not going well, you make misfortunes and you don't come back and you finish nowhere.  But at least I'm making some putts.  And I feel good.  I feel like I'm hitting the ball really well, so I'm giving myself a lot of chances.  I made lots of birdies.  Like I said, at least I'm still there.
Q. If you woke up sleepy, why didn't you just go back to bed?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Ten-hour time change is a big one. (Laughter).
Q. Did you ever feel like you're out of position on 10?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: No -- well, after my second, yeah.  I was in the fairway.  I laid up.
Q. Too far right maybe?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I laid up a little too far right, but it was a good yardage.  And then it caught the lip much the bunker but it plugged.  So you're plugged there, that's not what you're looking for.
Q. Did the third one go in the bunker?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: No, I actually got it out, sort of to the back right portion, but just off the green and chipped it up to maybe three feet but I missed the putt.
Q. For round three, looking for a little more consistency?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I would love some more consistency.  This is too exciting for my liking (laughs).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT