DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2015
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the finish?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I think I've made some progress.  I didn't hit the ball as good as I did on Thursday and Friday on the weekend, left and right, but I expect those sort of things.  You can't be flawless all the time.  There's been progress with every single part of the game.
Putted a little bit better this week.  I'll take it.  I didn't play well enough on the weekend to contend but feels like I'm making little steps forward.
Q. It's a big step in terms of your overall position in this field, and given the lucrative nature and World Ranking points, it's a very nice step in the right direction?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Maybe more World Ranking points than I made the whole year (chuckling).  It is.  It's nice to play well.
Q. How was it playing alongside Branden?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Branden is playing -- it was quite fun.  Branden is playing very good golf.  He's making it look easy at this stage.
Q. Can you draw off that yourself and use that as a little bit of inspiration and just getting the two of you together, that little battle?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I had a spur a few years ago where it felt like it, and I looked at him today and he was holing putts in from all over the show and even his bad putts are finishing well.  I'm thinking, yeah, I love that feeling when it was there.
Q. Bodes well, doesn't it, we events to come?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Sure.  Sure.  There's some great events coming up.  There's one in South Africa we really enjoy playing.  It's definitely worth for the guys to come out, but for us, really looking forward to the next couple weeks.
Q. And I have to ask for an appreciation of the guys that are ahead of you, Rory McIlroy and Andy Sullivan playing some superb golf around here.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: They sure are.  Whenever you're playing that well, it feels pretty normal, and the guys are not playing well look up on the board and they are thinking, how are those guys doing it.  But fantastic golf.  Really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT