DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2015
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts on shooting such a lovely low score to rise to the top?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, I'm just happy with a lot of the improvement.  A few months ago, I didn't feel like it was possible to put myself in position.  Slowly got the long game back together and to be honest, the last few weeks, the last three weeks, it's probably felt as good as it's ever been, if not the best.  That's a pretty big statement.  But I think it is probably the best I've ever hit the ball.  Giving myself a lot of chances.
We all know that there's a lot more to the game than hitting it well.  I've been struggling with some parts of it, but same thing, evaluated what is going on and there was quite a few bad mistakes.  The last two months I've been working on that, and today was no exception, I think I only missed two greens in 36 holes and I've had a whole bunch of makeable putts.  I managed to sneak a few in there today and that's the difference.
Q. The difference between the two days is taking those chances, as well, is it?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, I mean, to be fair, yesterday I had a lot of chances.  I didn't make as many as today.  But I finished off with a 7 yesterday on the last hole which doesn't help.  If it wasn't for that, I think I would have been pretty happy with the score.
Q. You've been working pretty hard and it's a long-term process, but was there a Eureka moment where suddenly things clicked, and you thought, all the hard work has been worthwhile?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: To be fair, I don't have that feeling yet.  I've been on a -- the last couple years, been on top of the world and then all of a sudden start sliding and it feels like you're rolling off and there's nowhere to go.
It feels like it's a bit of -- it feels like maybe something is starting to change, but I've got good feelings.  I think I definitely feel confident that I'm working on the right stuff, whether it's going to change this week all the way through, I don't know.  But it's definitely got the potential to.
Q. Does that mean coming into the season-ending championship with higher expectations than perhaps some other more recent weeks?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Again, once you've fallen way down, it's hard to really come in with any sort of expectations.  You're not sure what to expect.  Some part of it is good and other parts are letting it down.  When I was winning tournaments and playing well, a lot of the game -- when everything is good and then you've got some sort of degree of expectation.
But when there's parts that's still scrapping it around a little bit, you're not sure what to expect.  I knew I was going to hit the ball well, as I have been the last few weeks.  I'm starting to build a lot of confidence and that's very good.  I've been working on the putting with someone and that's giving me confidence.  There's definitely some stuff that needed to be addressed and that's improving but it's still hard to trust.
Q. It's great to see, and it must be nice knowing, as well, while it's a season-ender here, there's plenty more still to play for this year, isn't there, for you?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: 100 per cent.  We don't really have an off-season, so we keep going and we keep playing.  There's a lot of tournaments coming up now that I really enjoy playing.  It's nice that at least the game is starting to show up again a little bit and hopefully I can start playing the way I used to.
Q. I have to ask what it means to you to have this change of state for the Nedbank Championship going forward and part of The Final Series of The European Tour?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Thank you Ernie Els.  It's nice.  As a South African, that is for us one of the ultimate tournaments to play in.  I had a phone call two nights ago that said you were in, and I was ecstatic.  Looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT