PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about how your day went today and how this golf course was playing this afternoon.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Sure, I had a good day.  Whenever you shoot 68 I think that you can be satisfied.  I think it was a lot easier today than the rest of the first two days.  A little less wind.  Ball was flying far.
So, the southeast wind it made it play shorter.  So I thought that it was really possible to shoot a really low score.  I had it going for awhile, but I have been having some problems with the putter.
But anyways, it was good.  It was nice to play with Ernie.  I always enjoy playing with Ernie.  I would have liked to have made a couple of more birdies that I lipped out and a couple 3-putts that cost me.  That would have put me into a good position for tomorrow.  But that's a long way back, so we'll have to see.
Q. How about that three birdies at 9, 10 and 11.  Can you just kind of talk through those?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Like I said, with the wind blowing the way it is, 9 was only a little flick sand wedge.  Hit a good shot, hit it to three feet.
Same thing with 10.  Hit it up by the green there and chip it up to about eight feet and made that.
On 11, I hit driver, 8-iron to 20 feet and 2-putted.  So I felt they were like easy birdies.
So, they're out there.  There's a whole bunch of birdies out there.
Q. Right now you're T-16 and obviously there's still guys out there playing, but what's the strategy heading into tomorrow and what do you think you're going to have to go out and do?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I don't know.  It's going to be -- I don't know if you're going to be able to catch the guys, to be honest, the way the course is playing.  You got to think the winning score is going to be around 16-under.  So it's going to be a bit of a tough task.  But you never know.  I guess I have to shoot 64 tomorrow.
Q. 63 was out there yesterday, so.
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, sure.  It's definitely out there.  I don't know what the weather is going to be like.  But the way I played today and the way I've been playing all week, I had seven 3-putts this week.  That's very costly.  So, if I can keep hitting it well, I definitely got opportunities to shoot 63.  I just haven't been using the putter.
Q. How was it playing with Ernie and have you played with him in a Major before?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, I have.  I played lots of golf with Ernie.  It's great.  For me, obviously we get to play with him quite a lot now, so it's really enjoyable.  He was my hero growing up and we looked up to him and so any time you can play with a guy like that, it's great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT