MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2015
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I started off well.   I got it going in the beginning and felt really good.   Thought I was going to maybe get a good one in there.   I was really up for it.   But I hit two good shots on 6 and 7 and then got severely penalized.   I made two bogeys.   That killed my momentum. 
I tried to fight back.   Made a nice birdie on 9.   And then 2‑putted from three feet on 10 for double bogey and that really sort of stopped everything. 
So, I'm very disappointed right now, but still nice to be here. 

Q.   But you did, you dropped shots on holes that you had been doing well, and then you parred the 18th, where you've been struggling before.   Did you change your game today more aggressively or something like that?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   No, the holes that I made bogeys, I made good shots.   If I got back there and I hit 10 other shots, probably nine of them would finish within a couple feet of the hole.   Just those ones didn't.   And that's the margin of this golf course, it's very small.   I just hit a better tee shot on 18. 

Q.   Did you struggle with the heat or was that not a problem?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   No, I thought Thursday was warmer than today and it was nice.

Q.   How were the pin positions?   Were they difficult?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I don't think there's very many difficult flags out there right now.   The course is playing the easiest it's played in the last four or five years of the it's soft.   You can see by the scoring, I mean the guys, if you pull off the golf shots, when you're playing well and your putting well, you can, I can see the score Jordan is shooting.

Q.   So would you mind if I take your mind back to the Champions Dinner on Tuesday evening.   Would you mind just describing what it's like when you're sitting there at the table, what's around you?   What does it look like?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   A whole bunch of champions.   There's a lot of history, a lot of green jackets, it is really a very cool evening to be a part of. 

Q.   Do you get to choose where you want to sit or do they see the you?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   No, you sit where you want to sit.

Q.   Who did you sit next to this year?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I sat next to Adam Scott and Mark O'Meara. 

Q.   And it was a bit different this year, wasn't it, because there was some extra story telling at the end, is that right?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I mean, as a newcomer I don't know what it was like ever, so this year they, a whole bunch of the old guys got up and shared a few stories and for us guys that were new in there, it was very amazing to hear how they did it.

Q.   Was there anything in particular that someone said that stuck in your mind?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Not really, no. 

Q.   Do the champions also do you still receive a written invitation to the tournament or because you obviously know that you're going to be invited. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   No, you get your invitation.

Q.   So you're sent by post and everything?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT