MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know that means very little, especially going into a final round, do you draw on that at all and think, well, no matter how far ahead he gets, he's still within striking distance?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   You know, it's hard.   Things are very difficult for him.   It's very possible for him to have a good 36 holes and play level par.   And then that makes him in striking distance.   Because there's a whole bunch of guys that are playing well and there's birdies to be made out there. 
So, he's the one that's got the pressure.   But as far as us, we need to get to 14.   We need to make birdies and play a really good weekend and see what happens. 

Q.   A bit of a danger to maybe push too much then?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, what are you going to do?   You still need to hit great shots, that's just part of the game.   If you make good swings, you're going to need a hot putter.   That's the bottom of the story. 

Q.   You said that you were playing really well and it looked like ‑‑ what did a guy like Jordan do, if he got to 14‑under, if you're playing well and you're only 3‑under, what is Jordan doing?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   He's taking less putts than I am.   He's making everything he looks at.   If you look at the greens in regulation, we're probably very close to each other.   But he's really hot with the putter.

Q.   How do you think the course is going to be tomorrow?   How do you think they're going to place the pins?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Well, I think even if you see some of the flags, all of the flags will be nice flags out there.   It depends, if it doesn't rain tonight, the pins will get really firm tomorrow and I think that's what they're looking for.   The golf course will get a little bit harder. 

Q.   What do you do to prepare for tomorrow?   Do you go home, relax, what?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I'm just going to go hit a few shots, but nothing serious.   And then I'll go home and eat, get some rest.   It's a hard course to walk.

Q.   What is it you want to practice?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Just some rhythm.   Keep the rhythm going.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT