ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2015
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Charl, 65 for 12‑under par is a very rewarding day.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It is.   I played well the last two days.   But today, especially, was one of the best rounds I've played for about two years I think.   If I had a very good putter today, I would have broken 60.   That's the honest truth.   But it was nice, nice to play some quality golf like this.   I haven't had that for quite some time and I'm very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Clearly we spoke of the terrific performance in South Africa last week and we knew it was heading in the right direction.   The progress is there, isn't it.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Definitely, a lot better.   I've been hitting a lot better golf shots.   And I'm actually even striking the putter well.   Missed a lot of short putts today.   But it was good strokes.   You know, played well last week, and good round today, and will hopefully keep progressing.  
   
 Q.   How much is down to technicalities, technique, and how much is the confidence, the self‑belief, gained from improving?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I think confidence grows really quickly if you start seeing good shots and repeating them.   I think they go hand on hand.   The technical side of the swing has been off for quite some time.   It's slowly getting better and it's starting to feel better; with that grows confidence.  
   
 Q.   You were very gracious in defeat last week; I presume you were cut up on the flight over here, but good to get it back again immediately, back on the bike straightaway?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It is.   It was a very hard loss last week.   But we get up and we learn from it, and we'll try again.   There's no point in hanging on the past.   We have to go forward, and I am playing well.   Just got to keep playing.   
   
 Q.   Tell us the story of why your wife is carrying all your clubs around.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   That was a very last minute thing.   The guy that caddied for me last week‑‑ I wasn't going to play this week.   I was going to play Qatar and only middle of last week I decided, now I'm going to play.   He couldn't get a visa in time.   They said they were going to get one; and Tuesday, Wednesday came, and no visa, so wife got on the bag.   
   
 Q.   Light bag, relatively.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It is.   We've had really good fun.   It's nice.   It's the first time that she's caddied for me.   She's walked hundreds and thousands of rounds that I've played on the outside and I think it's nice for her to see it from the inside.  
   
 Q.   She is still smiling.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Well, most people smile after 65.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT