ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 24, 2014
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Slow start today.   Happy with the way you continued the round?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Actually very.   I made a good birdie on the first.   Looked like it may be a pretty decent day, then all of a sudden streak of five holes I find myself 2‑over par.   
It was playing difficult, so I'm actually very happy‑‑ I would've been happy with anything under par at that stage.   But to get it to 3‑under, I thought it was pretty well done.  
   
 Q.   You had that tough two‑putt at the last.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, when I actually striked the first one, most of the time you can tell as you hit it whether it's hard enough or not.   I thought I hit it plenty hard enough.  
But that a nice putt to just save.   It's never nice finishing with a three‑putt, so it's a good position to go into the weekend with.  
Obviously if it doesn't rain this golf course is going to get a lot firmer, which ist already has.   And it's going to get tough, which I prefer.   
   
 Q.   How were the conditions out there today?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It was tough.   Like I say, course is a lot firmer than yesterday, and obviously (indiscernible) when the wind picks up.   
So I don't really look at the scoring, but I'm guessing it will be a little worse than what yesterday was.  
   
 Q.   We've had two tournament records from some guys.   Feel like you can do something special?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Be very nice to join those guys.   Played the par‑5s badly.   Had one birdie and really actually haven't been in any sort of trouble whatsoever.   Been hitting the fairways and irons in, and still haven't made birdies.  
So if I can give myself some chances tomorrow again and hopefully get some good iron shots into those par‑5s.   If I can start birdieing those, it'll take a little pressure off.   That's the only way to shoot a low score.   
   
 Q.   Koala yesterday afternoon.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Sunshine.   
   
 Q.   How'd you go?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I love it.   I love animals.   I think two years ago also he was a little smaller than what he is now, but cute little guy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT