THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2014
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How do you feel about the day?  CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I played really solidly on the front nine, unlike the backside.  My front side, three birdies.  I hit 8 out of 9 greens.  A couple of loose shots on my last nine holes.  I pulled on iron on 4 and then hit it in the edge of gourse on 7. Just not quite enough control off the tee at the moment.  When I have it, it's good.  When I don't, it's a little off.  So fortunately a lot of the time on Tour, if I'm not good off the tee as good as I can, I'm sort of defending a little bit too much rather than playing offending.  It's not far away, but.  It hasn't been as good as it can be.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Pretty high.  I mean, I've been working hard on the game.  Last week saw a lot of positive aspects of my long tee-to-green game in Scotland.  And been working hard on my game.  And on the range it feels very, very solid.  It's just taking that and trusting it on the golf course.  But everyone is different and when you go through some changes, it takes some time.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, it was really pretty nice.  The conditions were good in the end.  Really very little rain, very little wind.  Greens were a bit softer from some of the earlier rain.  So the conditions were right for a low one.   Q.  And obviously with the two-tee start today?  CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I guess they were expecting the thunder.  In the end it held off, but they did what they thought was going to get this round in, and in the end the weather was good.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, go shoot a low one, boost some confidence.  I'm playing the next three weeks in Canada, Akron and PGA.  So just keep trying to find where you become more and more comfortable.  And got a long stretch of events coming up.  If I can throw in another low one tomorrow, it will give me a little boost of confidence.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT