THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2014
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Seem to be some lower scoring out there today than yesterday.   What was the difference in maybe how the course was playing?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I felt like this morning the greens were ‑‑ like they watered them last night.   So it felt like you could get the ball closer.   And I don't know if everyone's finding it, but I'm finding the ball going really fast, getting a lot of roll on the fairways. 
The course isn't playing as long as it normally does.   Like I said with the greens, especially in the morning, from back when we teed off to the first (indiscernible) there was some really good opportunities to get it close. 
Maybe the guys in the afternoon will struggle a little bit more with the greens firming up.

Q.   What was the birdie run for you on 5 through 7, just was there something specifically confidence‑wise going for you there?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Not really.   I nearly had a really bigger birdie on‑‑ I birdied the second, and the third I missed the one‑footer for birdie.   And on the fourth I missed a three‑footer for birdie.   And I managed to hit it on the green for two on 5 and two‑putted and hit two good shots into 6, made that 10‑footer, and I kind of was pretty close for eagle on 7. 
I was hitting it pretty good, gave myself a lot of chances happened to make a few on that stretch.

Q.   With the rough being kind of difficult this week, was one of the keys to your round being ‑‑ you hit 10 fairways today‑‑ being in the fairway a little bit more than you were the last two days?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It does help to hit it in the fairway.   I think, like I said, the course is playing a little firmer, allowed me to hit a few irons off the tee.   Put myself in position.   But the rough is pretty severe. 
So you need to be in the fairway to control your ball and give yourself some chances.

Q.   Talk about today, really a solid day for you.   You have to be really pleased. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I am.   I thought I played it really well.   In a way I felt (indiscernible) gave myself a whole bunch of chances and I stuffed up a few of them and I ground a few. 
So to me it's been a little something coming and figuring things out on the course.   And this is a hard sport.   Your expectations get up and you really want to play well.   And sometimes that gets in the way. 
And today was pretty much freewheeling.   It's always really enjoyable to play with Steve, and maybe that helped a little.

Q.   I know you've been working overtime on your putting, while you missed some make‑able birdies, I thought you made some par saves too. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   There's always a bit of give and take.   I missed some short early birdie putts. 
And I think the thing also after missing those short ones was bouncing back and banging on the next.   I think that's key normally.   Otherwise it can really break your momentum.

Q.   Will you be freewheeling again tomorrow?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   You know, seems like the more expectations the worse you play.   So might as well not have any expectations and just go out and play and see what happens.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT