NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2014
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I'm disappointed, a bit of mixed feelings.   I felt like through nine holes I was playing really well and giving myself a pretty decent chance.   Then a bit of a lack of concentration on 11, 3‑putted from nowhere and I think that sort of put a brake to it.   
I had a good chance on 10 and 11, and played a little scruffy from there.   Made a good bunker shot on 14 I suppose to try to get back into it, but followed with a weak shot on 15.  
I haven't played for quite some time, so to come out and at least be in contention is a good feeling.   
   
 Q.   Talk about how Bubba's playing?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Looks like he's having a fantastic weekend.   He must be hitting the ball great and be in great control of his golf became, because the golf course, the greens are really firm.   It's difficult.   You need to hit good shots.  
   
 Q.   Momentum heading into next week?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, like I said, I haven't played for a while, and you know, in the off‑season, worked on a few things and there was really some good signs of it.   So I am excited going forward.   The Match Play is a format that's a little unpredictable in a way, but try to keep doing what I'm doing, keep hitting good shots and hopefully can make it through there.   
   
 Q.   You said something‑‑ you said you were working on something in the off‑season.   What in particular?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   You know, just a few stuff with the swing.   You know, I wasn't particularly hitting the ball very good last week in Johannesburg so worked a little bit with my dad and just a few key things that creeps in now and again, so trying to fix it.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this place that seems to bring the best out of you?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I don't know.   Pretty similar in a way to I think where I come from in South Africa.   We always play December, January, a few tournaments down there, and the kikuyugrass is down there, so I think in that way it's very familiar, and also the golf course being tree‑lined and the way it sets up, I think just makes you feel very comfortable.   
Third or fourth or whatever it's going to be, hopefully can start improving the other direction, but I'm comfortable here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT