VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2014
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What did you hit today?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I had 198, 5‑iron.   
   
 Q.   To about four feet?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, something like that.   Still missed the putt though.   So might as well have been short and chipped and putted.   
   
 Q.   Going into tomorrow, absolutely nothing to lose I guess.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It depends what Tommy and Louis does.   I think they are going to struggle to beat those two guys.   Louis, he's obviously always hit the ball really good around here and it seems it's the same this year again.   I think it's going to be very difficult to beat‑‑ you know never.   I need to shoot something low 60s, which I really do think is possible on this golf course.   
   
 Q.   Lovely shot off the road at 16, a little bit unusual and presumably satisfying.     
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I got lucky there.   
   
 Q.   One of those you can put in the memory bank, and say, yeah, that's a nice achievement‑‑  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I'm sure Seve would have been very proud of it.   
   
 Q.   And overall, that's part and parcel of a good move across the week in this championship after a slow‑ish start.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, well, you know, still very scruffy.   I'm not feeling very comfortable on this golf course right now.   Hitting the ball, according to me, very poorly.   Feeling very lucky to be shooting better scores than I have the past two days.   To me it feels like I need quite a bit of a miracle to catch the guys tomorrow, to somehow shoot something in the low 60s.   I think the wind is going to change so maybe that helps.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel like it's moving in the right direction?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Not really, no.   I'm feeling very uncomfortable.   Striking it very badly and hitting my irons very wayward.   Pretty much nothing to say other than hopefully I find something tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT