THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2013
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Being one of six South Africans here, how proud you are of the nation and being able to represent the country?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, it's obviously fantastic for us that there are so many South Africans.   It makes it feel like a lot more like a team already just being‑‑ just having all us Africans.   Even Australians, you know, we make up a lot of the team.   Where I think in the past, there was a lot of different countries and it's very difficult to get everyone sort of gelling together.   With us, we (inaudible).   It feels like a team a lot earlier than it did last time around.  
   
 Q.   Part of that too, I saw you guys playing with Jason and Graeme.   Are you feeling that team camaraderie come together?   Nick even said today, "I don't think the 12 of them have been in the same place at one time ever before," you know, in one room at least?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I mean, I've played lots of golf with Graeme.   Obviously the same with Jason.   Jason was also on the team last time around, so we feel very comfortable around each other.   And obviously I've playedwith Luis, which I've played a lot with.   
   
 Q.   Played a team event with Ernie?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, he's got so much to share.   He's been around for so long.   He's always good to get some advice.   As South Africans, he was the guy that we (inaudible).   So it's always a privilege having him around.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the course setup?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   The greens may be a little bit slower than what they've been with Memorial, maybe.   But I think it's only because they're soft maybe because of all the rain today.   
But the course is always in great shape.   I don't think I've ever seen it not in great shape.   So nothing really has changed there.   
   
 Q.   What's the encounter with the team barber?   Can you give us a little background on what happened with the haircuts?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Luis and myself, we were the guinea pigs.   He went first and basically lost all his hair.   And then I figured I just need a little touch up on the sides, and I ended up losing all mine hair.   None of the other guys volunteered to go.  
   
 Q.   So just the two of you got it?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   The two of us got it.   Only time is going to heal this problem.  
   
 Q.   You've had it that short before, right?   You have worn your hair that short?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   This is very short.  
   
 Q.   What was the idea behind it, just to get the guys going?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   We just wanted a haircut, and it ended up being‑‑ it ended up being something I probably could have done myself.   
   
 Q.   Jason being a member here, anything you can pick his brain about about the course?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Not really.   I mean, I've played around here so many times myself.   I'm very familiar with it.   I feel very comfortable around this golf course.   It is pretty much whatever you feel comfortable with.  
   
 Q.   You guys have a lot of rookies on the team, but you also have five major champions.   Is that a nice blend to have that, guys who have been there, done that and at the same guys who haven't performed on this stage in the Presidents Cup?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It does help.   I think in a way it's good for us to have all rookies.   You know, the guys they don't have really bad feelings.   They haven't been on the losing side.   For them it's all fresh and new.   You know, maybe a little bit more hungry.   
So I think it's a great thing, I think all the new guys on the team this year.  
   
 Q.   Have any of those rookies come to you for any advice, you having played in quite a few of these team events?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   You know, there have been a few guys that sort of chatted.   Basically it comes down to guys have got to feel comfortable with each other.   
I think what Nick has done well, he's involved everyone in all the decisions and hears what the guys feel.   Rookies, some of them might feel uncomfortable playing with someone.   So just the more comfortable you feel, the better you are going do play.   So that's basically what it was.  
   
 Q.   Can I ask you about 2003 Presidents Cup?   Where were you?   Did you watch a lot of it?   What are your memories?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I was in South Africa watching on TV.   I wasn't actually at the event.   Luis was at the event because it was played near where he lived.   
I just remember it being very exciting, being that close.   I mean, Ernie and Tiger going into the playoff.   I just remember it being very exciting.   
I think that's what the Presidents Cup needs again is that sort of excitement.   And I think just with us (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   Were you watching in the living room?   Take me through your emotions when Tiger made that putt and then Ernie made it on top of him.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I just remember being at home.   I can't really remember‑‑ I just remember the excitement.   I talked to Ernie the other day, not long ago about that putt.   It was one of those putts where you can't really feel your hands.   It was quite a nerve‑wracking putt.   At that stage of his career, he was on top of all of it.   He felt like he wasn't going to miss it.  
   
 Q.   Jason was referring to he feels like there was less tension in the team, albeit it was early in the week.   He already feels a calmer team environment.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, Nick has chosen quite a few(inaudible) and that sort of thing.   So there's a lots of jokes flying around.   It definitely is (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   You're a team with a lot of collective pride.   How important is it to get this turned in the right direction?   And how much have you talked about that with the team?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I think for us, we're feeding off guys like Ernie and Adam that have been‑‑ they have played in seven or eight of these things.   And you can see by the way they feel, you know, that they really are sick and tired of losing.   That's urging on to change that around.   
I also think we feel we're sort of the new generation maybe, you could say.   If you want to take the Presidents Cup to the next level, it's up to us to do it.  
   
 Q.   Luis just said that six guys were supposed to get their haircut and you were the only two.   Who were the four that backed out?   Do you know who they were?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Mark McNulty.   That would have been very funny if he had lost all his fair.   I think Graeme and (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   Adam Scott has been very vocal about the need for an International win.   What are your thoughts?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I agree.   As I was saying, it needs the excitement of 2003 Presidents Cup.   Coming Sunday, it needs to come down to the last few matches, maybe.   If the Internationals can pull it through, it can really start making a competition of this event.   
It just seems like the guys (inaudible) International in the past, and it really is an (inaudible).   With the Ryder Cup, a really exciting finish, that is what really sparks us.   I think that is pretty much what the Presidents Cup needs.  
   
 Q.   What do you think is the biggest advantage that you have as the International team?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, I said earlier, the guys don't‑‑ they don't have any memory of any losses.   They haven't been on that side.   They have learned from Adam and Ernie, which has been a great influence.   These guys are top players.   And you are really feeding off them.   
Basically, we're sort of saying it's up to us to take this‑‑ to change this around.   The guys are really up for it.   That's why I think it's a great thing to have all the rookies.  
   
 Q.   You are one of the better ball strikers in the world.   (Inaudible) statistically this year is one of the better ball striking performances in recent memory.   How familiar are you with him as far as a ball striker and what impresses you most about him?   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Well, I mean, again, it's a guy that gets the club up high, strikes it the most consistent, approaches the whole game around the body.   (Inaudible) consistent.   You know, (inaudible) is sort of up high.   
For me, you can never go wrong.   That is the way it always comes from the left to right and you can see why.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT