BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2013
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just a few comments.   Solid opening round here at the BMW Championship.   Just a few comments on what went right for you today. 
    CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I just got off to a nice start, 4‑under through the first five holes, always sort of helps get your round going.   And that's when the conditions got tough.   The wind picked up quite a bit, and it was moving around a little bit in the beginning.   So it was difficult to get the ball close.   But at that stage I already got it to 4‑under par.

Q.   At the risk of asking a dumb question, how does the course in general suit your game with it being a first‑time‑‑
    CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I played well yesterday.   Yesterday I shot 8‑under in the pro‑am.   It definitely suits my eye.   I feel very comfortable on it.   There's a ways to go, and I've at least put myself in position. 

Q.   I was just talking to Zach Johnson.   He said through the middle of the round the wind really switched and you had to make some adjustments.   Is that what you found?
    CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   For sure.   When I teed off at 10:30, first sort of five holes, it was pretty calm, and then all of a sudden it picked up.   It got quite strong, and it was, it was switching around quite a bit.   So you had to keep an eye on every shot.   There wasn't just one direction.   It played a bit tricky, and I also found it started influencing the putting a bit.   Greens are really quick, and if you had putts cross‑wind, it definitely affected those rolls.

Q.   How do you like the golf course? 
    CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I have quite a liking for it after today (laughing).   It's good.   It's right in front of you.   It tests every part of your game.   You've got to drive it well.   There's a few sections‑‑ these greens are designed so they're not just big round greens.   They've got sections, so you've got to hit good iron shots.   And then like I said, the greens are rolling quite fast, so you're going to have to factor that in.

Q.   Obviously coming into the week you know where you stand in terms of FedExCup points.   Does that add any pressure?
    CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I suppose there's always a degree of pressure, but try and come out with the mindset of just playing.   I've been playing well for the last couple months, just not having the results‑‑ the results haven't been showing.   But I just figured if I keep going and just give it my best, it should be good enough to at least have a shot at it next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT