THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Yeah, I played very well today.
Changed a few things, changed the putter, and it really gave me
some confidence.  It made some nice birdie putts.  So it's
definitely easier in the morning.  Can't wait to see the guys
explode this afternoon.  I'm going to love watching them sword
fight around this course.
Q.  You mentioned it was easier this morning.  Is there a
number about of shots that are the difference between morning and
afternoon?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  No, it's the golf course gets -- our
last four or five holes are starting to show what it was yesterday
afternoon.  These guys really are going to struggle.
Q.  Did you change one or two things, what was it?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I just changed the putter.  I went
to -- the same putter but one of those long grips, a bit more
weight.  And it made quite a bit of a difference.
Q.  The 380-yard drive on the par-4?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I hit a few over 400.
Q.  Nice.  Which holes?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I had a 6-iron 280 yards.
Q.  Where did that happen?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Which hole -- on 9.
Q.  Where were these 400-yard drives?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  2nd green, 15 went into a bunker, 380
at speed.  But it's like hitting down a runway.
Q.  How about today's performance?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Lee definitely surprised me.  The way
that he's played.  I thought he putted beautifully.  The putts
that he needed to make he has made.  And then that's been the
difference with him this week so far.  He's made a whole bunch of
par putts that just keep the momentum.  Around this sort of golf
course those par putts are birdie putts on other tournaments.  And
he's done that and that's definitely kept him up in his
confidence.  You can see the way he's walking and the way he's
playing.  Definitely a danger, man.
Q.  (Inaudible).
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Well, it went by the side by the flag.
Q.  Was it a two-putt?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Chip and a putt.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  It was just an instant thing.  I
didn't think what I was doing.  I'm not really proud of it.  I
didn't really mean to do it.  It was just -- when you're playing
under so much pressure, and you're expecting so much of yourself,
it's just a reaction that just comes.  I've done it a few times in
my career, but never, ever broken a club that way.  So it just
shows you how hard the ground is, the vibration that obviously
went through it.
But, anyways, you know, not very proud of it.
Q.  Did you bring a different attitude to the round, trying
to be more patient, more accepting of what this course will give?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Well, I mean, for a couple of months
now I've played well, and my putter has let me down.  And I just
figured -- I went and I put one of those long grips, Justin Rose
was using it.  It just adds a better weight to the putter.  Change
is never a bad thing in this game.
But like I said, it's definitely playing easier in the
morning.  You can control your ball a little better.  So we needed
to take advantage of that.
Q.  Did you put pressure on yourself?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Not really.  The situation I was in at
4-over par, it's going one way or the other.  So you can't back
off.  You've got to attack it, if you want to try to win this golf
tournament.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Tough to say, but it's going to be
pretty much a U.S. Open scenario, I think.
Q.  It's not much fun?  Is it torture?  Is it misery?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  No, you know, I don't like it when it
starts becoming that much luck, because that's what it is.
Because when it gets this crusty and you're working on balls
bouncing, you know, with 6-irons going at 280, but they're
bouncing at 210 in the air.  How do you judge that?  It becomes a
bit of a lottery.  You don't know what's going to happen.  And you
need to be able to play like we played in this morning.  That way,
you can still control your golf ball and quality shots get
rewarded.  But when it gets like this afternoon, you can hit good
shots and going to get all sorts of results.  And it's not that
exactly fair, in my eyes.
Q.  But if you win, you'll accept the trouble?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  If I win, I'll be kissing this golf
course.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I didn't do it today.  Well, I do it
because I practice with one hand on the putting green, and that's
just the way I have my hand.  I feel like if I have my hand
outside my pocket or if I wanted to make swings, it gives me
tension in my left shoulder.  If I have my hand in my pocket, all
the tension is gone.  By the time I putt it, there is no tension.
Q.  What if you putt one-handed?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  I putt better one-handed.  I'll go
over that strategy on the weekend.










END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT