U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2013
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Was it worth getting out of bed for?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, it was definitely worth getting out of bed for.   Those are two tough holes to come back that early in the morning and a pretty nice little result for the last few holes.   
   
 Q.   How did you play?   I didn't see them.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I got to hit the tee shot at 17 yesterday, but it came up short in the bottom tier.   And I think the greens are a meter and a half quicker this morning.   I think it looks like they have double cut them already.   
So the putt that I had yesterday was pretty simple, but I came back this morning and it was really difficult.   Once it gets to the top of the hill it goes back down.   And I managed to make a 5‑footer coming back to make par there.   So that was nice.   
And then I hit it about a foot from Hogan's little plate there on 18 and then I hit 6‑iron in.   And I had a nice little 15‑footer.  
   
 Q.   You hit 1‑iron.   Good for you.   Make that a 1‑iron.   Well done.   Hit it to how far?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   About 15 feet.   
   
 Q.   Well done.   Does it feel like hard work for two days?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   It does.   I woke up this morning I felt like really, really sort of drained in a way.   It's really intense and there's a lot of concentration needed on a course where it slips away very quickly.   So you need to ‑‑ it's a bit grinding.   
   
 Q.   Good position though.   
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, it's right there.   It's a long way to go and I don't think scoring‑‑ I think today it's going to play quite a bit tougher than it did, with the greens being quick, but you just got to hang in there and basically it's the guy that survives at the end.   That's what it feels like.   
   
 Q.   Of the tournaments you've won, even Augusta when you started far behind, when you get to the halfway point and feeling pretty good about your position, you're two off the lead at this point, does it feel the way you physically feel and mentally feel and grinding for par that you're two off the lead and right there?   Is it hard to adjust yourself that, man, I'm right there, even when you might drop the odd shot here and there?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I think in a way, on a golf course like this, where you, where if you make bogey you're not falling too many places, it almost motivates you.   Because there is a few holes here where you feel like you can make a birdie, so if you do make bogeys, it's sort of a comfort you got is you know everyone's going to make bogeys around this place.   
So you don't‑‑ where normal tournaments, you make bogeys, you really feel like you're losing a lot of places.   
For me, I'm playing good golf, and I know that I just got to sort of grind it out and stay with it.   Not let it get to me.  
   
 Q.   If you came back a year later after this show left town and played, what you would consider a good round of golf?   What would you shoot?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   The course would be a lot easier without the rough.   I don't think they have rough like this.   There's lots of holes you're hitting driver to way down and little chip shots in.   Yeah, you got to be able to shoot a 5‑under around here.   I don't think you would struggle to do that.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of the talk about the 62s earlier in the week.   You probably heard that, didn't you?   Scoring record?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I don't know what those guys are thinking.   Maybe the comment was after 16 holes or something.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   What do you do now?   What's your plan for the rest of the day?   Back to the hotel?  
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I'm just going to go back and relax for awhile.   It will probably be a few hours before I come back out.   So get back in bed.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT