HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2013
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thursday, first round at the HP Byron Nelson Championship, Charlie you told me earlier in the week you put this tournament on your schedule, wanted to see what the golf course was like and how it fit your game.   How does it fit your game?  
CHARLES SCHWARTZEL:  
Seems to fit my game pretty well.   It's softened up and I think this morning we were fortunate, not too much wind.   You could fire at a few flags.  
   
 Q.   With conditions like this, the overnight rain, how critical was it to take advantage of that?  
CHARLES SCHWARTZEL:  
Seems like you don't get many of those opportunities so being out here first was a bit of an advantage and there were a few flags tucked away but with the greens being soft you could spin it into the corners.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the conditions.   
CHARLES SCHWARTZEL:  
I mean you couldn't ask for much better.   So much rain it softened up.   Played long off the tee but it's a big advantage going into the greens with the second shot.  
You had a clean ball in the fairway and especially the first nine holes the ball was spinning quite a bit so you could attack the flags.  
   
 Q.   Talk about how much you like this golf course.  
CHARLES SCHWARTZEL:   I seem to like it quite a bit.   It's my first competitive round, around here so I've heard that it can be very difficult when it gets firm and windy but I'm taking it as it comes.   I played it conservative with quite a bit of 2‑irons and things off the tee and I think as it firms up it will play well.  
   
 Q.   You're one of a few international guys here, was it a matter of scheduling to come here or was it something else?  
CHARLES SCHWARTZEL:   
Yeah, I try and add a few more tournaments every year to my schedule that I haven't been to.   I haven't been to this one before, because it's so close to the PLAYERS, it's difficult to play both.  
The word was this is similar to the foundations we are used to, so I thought I've got to give it a go.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT