MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It was like a reversal of the first round.   You started off strongly today and faded a bit. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah.   I think it's a lot more tougher today than yesterday.   Yesterday the conditions allowed you to come back.   Today it was just hanging in there all day.   It's at least four shots more difficult than it was yesterday. 
So I wouldn't call it fading, anything under par is phenomenal.

Q.   I mean, you were 4‑under after three or 3‑under after 3.   Was it disappointing to finish like you did?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Not at all.   On a day like today you need a lot of patience.   You're always going to make bogeys. 
So like I said, yesterday I got off to a bad start, but it was playing a lot easier than it was today.   So if you just kept it in good shape yesterday you were going to make birdies.   Shooting 4‑ or 5‑under is what you should have done. 
Today that's not the case.   Today a lot of people are shooting over par.   So anything under par is great. 

Q.   15 yesterday, what did you hit as opposed to today?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Today you got 260 in.   Yesterday we were hitting 7‑irons in.   Today you don't even attempt to go.   I mean, you can make it with a 3‑wood, but it's ‑‑ I'm not sure what you would call it, but maybe a Brian Gay shot.

Q.   Did you go for it?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   No, I laid up. 

Q.   The next shot is not an easy shot.   It's a delicate shot. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Well, the one thing in your favor is you're hitting off a downhill lie, it keeps the ball down.   But it's definitely no easy shot. 

Q.   Three shots out, do you like your position tomorrow?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Well, it's great.   It's in there.   It's only halfway.   There's a lot of holes left.

Q.   How important was your third on the 18th?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   That was big.   I made a, I had a bit of misfortune on 17.   I hit a good putt and a gust of wind blew it out of the hole.   And then I was disappointed there. 
Then at least I made it up on 18 with a good save. 

Q.   Do you learn something every time you play this course?   Gaining experience and course knowledge. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Well, you always learn.   But you've got ‑‑ most of the shots that you think you need to play, you know already.   So a lot of things don't change.   I suppose the more you play it, the more comfortable you get. 
You get guys like Fred Couples who have played it so many times and the comfort is something for sure.

Q.   Does that say something to you that guys like Furyk, Couples, Cabrera are right up near the top?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   No, the guys are playing great too, but consequently it's because they're feeling comfortable around here and they have been around here so many times.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT