OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2016
J.T. Barrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were excited to see Mike Jordan play, as you call him.  How do you feel like he performed in his first day as a Buckeye?  
J.T. BARRETT: I think he did well.  I think his nerves kind of calmed down.  I think that was very good to see being a true freshman.  I have no idea what that must felt like being a true freshman coming in there playing in front of 100,000 people.  I thought he did well.   
 Q.  Urban said he wasn't exactly happy with the wide receivers.  That was kind of a surprise.  Looked like the wide receivers played well.  What was your take on the wideouts?  
J.T. BARRETT: There were some times when we had some missed assignments out there, which we could have scored.  It was kind of like -- I guess it was bad timing.  So when they had their MAs, there were opportunities to score when those times happened.   
So I wasn't as upset.  But he's the head duck.  So he does his thing.   
 Q.  Dontre Wilson is a guy who has been, had all this potential all these years, two touchdowns the other day.  You know what he's been through.  Could you describe what he brings to the team and what you know of him, how important this year is to him?  
J.T. BARRETT: Yeah, so that is my guy, coming from Texas.  And I think with him it was just coming back off of injury, trying to stay healthy and just he is also that playmaker that we need in our offense as well.   
We have Curtis Samuel, but Dontre -- before Curtis, we were talking about Dontre.  So they both do the same thing, could run between tackles, they get the ball outside on the edge of run plays and also could run routes.   
So they both are very dynamic, being playmakers for us.  And this year is his senior year, so I know it means a lot to him.  He put in a lot of work in the offseason, him and me both have.  I think he's at a good place right now.   
 Q.  How tired was he after the game?  
J.T. BARRETT: I don't know.  I didn't really see him.  But I know he was probably with his dad.  His dad is hilarious.  His dad is probably fired up.  And his brother was there, too, so that's good for him.   
 Q.  Do you think with him that he was at any time discouraged during his career here?  
J.T. BARRETT: Yeah, because I think where he was in DeSoto, Texas, he didn't have any injuries like that, especially with breaking his foot.   
And if you haven't gone through anything like that before, I am pretty sure it's very difficult to trying to grasp that whole injury and trying to come back from it.   
 Q.  J.T., Philip Montgomery, Tulsa's coach was the quarterbacks coach for RGIII, Bryce Petty and Case Keenum and Kevin Cobb, I don't expect you to speak on him, but I'm wondering what it takes -- you're an expert on this -- what would it take to be a successful quarterbacks coach?  
J.T. BARRETT: I don't know.   
 Q.  What do you need from your guy?  
J.T. BARRETT: He actually recruited me when he was at Baylor, too.  But so the question is what does it take to be a quarterback coach?   
 Q.  What do you need from your guy?  
J.T. BARRETT: What do I need out of my guy?  I think toughness is like -- are you saying what I need from Coach Beck, is that what you're asking?   
 Q.  You should be an expert on what it takes to be a good quarterbacks coach because you're a guy who needs --  
J.T. BARRETT: You're asking me do I need out of the quarterback or do I need out of the coach?   
 Q.  What do you need out of the coach.  
J.T. BARRETT: Out of the coach, I think something Coach Beck does really good job of is breaking down film and trying to transition that on to the field.   
I think when he got here, that really helped me, because there would be times when I would sit there definitely, I'd say early on, my true freshman year, not my true freshman, year but redshirt freshman year, I'm watching film and I'm like, all right, I see it on film.  It's comfortable.  I'm watching it in the chair, pressing buttons.   
But then I get out there and the bullets start flying, it's like I don't see anything that I saw on film.  So I think that's something he does a really good job.   
And then just being I guess calm on game days.  I think that's something that is really helpful as a quarterback, because we've got a lot of stuff to handle.  Everything's flying around.   
So with that, I think that was something that I enjoy with Coach Beck.   
 Q.  I'm curious, you know a lot of famous people.  You had a record-setting day on Saturday.  Who was the most famous person who texted you congratulations?  
J.T. BARRETT: Most famous person?  I talked to Kirk Herbstreit.  We text every now and then.  That's pretty cool.   
 Q.  From a technical standpoint, or anything on the field, is there anything that you improved during the offseason that you either weren't or couldn't do last year?  
J.T. BARRETT: I wouldn't say something that I couldn't do.  The things I got better at was things I talked about like being able to see the defense, transition what I saw on film on to the field, like the first touchdown to K.J., I saw the no-deep look that we practiced on the field and in practice but also saw on film and what the look was going to look like and then checked into the protection and gave the routes, and we scored.   
So that's something that just from seeing that on film and they would go out there and know what to do and execute it.   
 Q.  Is that something that comes from experience, or is that something you like specifically tried to work on?  
J.T. BARRETT: It's a little bit of both.  I think experience, it starts to slow down a little bit for you, as far as the game.  And then something we definitely worked on in practice.   
 Q.  There's no quarterback competition this year.  But there is one behind you.  I'm just wondering, we saw Joe play.  What you've seen from that quarterback competition and how do you believe Dwayne Haskins is coming along?  
J.T. BARRETT: I didn't know there was a quarterback competition.  Did you know?  I didn't know that there was.   
But I guess my man, John, he did well.  I think he's just a funny guy.  Like, he's out there on the sideline, Coach Meyer tells me:  Go get Joe ready.  And I could see his eyes like this, warming up.   
(Laughter).   
Oh, man, John, he was hilarious.  But same thing with Ross.  That's Dwayne.  So Ross, I think with him, he just needs more reps.  And I think the same thing with John.  Both of them need a lot of reps.   
And I think that's going to be helping them definitely get better and develop is reps.  But I think, like I said, I didn't know there was a quarterback competition, but I think John's ahead of Ross, because that's just off of experience.   
 Q.  I'm guessing that that start wasn't what you had in mind, with the interception.  What is the conversation as you come off the field or briefly in between those drives, is there any at all?  
J.T. BARRETT: The conversation with myself?   
 Q.  Or do you talk to anybody?  
J.T. BARRETT: Coach Meyer, he doesn't say nothing to me.  The conversation I had with myself, though, is just like, well, darn, J.  I didn't use "darn."  But try and keep it PG in here.   
But I was, like, man, J, somebody could've told you you was throwing a pick six the first drive of 2016, you'd be, like, you're a liar.   
So I was sitting there, I said:  Sheesh, J.T., it's a pick six, but relax, you know what happened.  You were just being greedy.  So stop being greedy.   
And then I went to everybody and I was, like, it was on me.  I apologize.  It won't happen again.  And then we went on about our day.   
 Q.  J.T., along those lines, what will you look at film-wise this week will you look at the positive, will you look at the negative, which will you spend more time on?  
J.T. BARRETT: Well, we watched film yesterday of the game.  And we always try to critique ourselves and make sure we try to get better.  So the positives you kind of flip through those like quickly, rather quickly.  And look at the plays that need work on still.   
So but I think that's how any team should look at it.  Especially we had a good day, but there was still things we could improve on.   
 Q.  By way of self-evaluation, don't give yourself a grade, but how did you feel Saturday went?  
J.T. BARRETT: After the game, I felt good about how I played.  Of course, wish I had a couple of balls back.   
But other than that, I was at a good place on how I performed.   
 Q.  To go full Tim May on you here with three questions, you've referenced hilarious people three times here since you've been here.  Who are your favorite hilarious people that are a part of this program, coach, player, whatever?  You seem to enjoy that aspect of that personality.  
J.T. BARRETT: John is hilarious.  He's just a weird cat, man.  I think as quarterbacks we're all kind of weird dudes.  I think it's part of I guess if job or role.  But he's different.   
And I said that to you all before.  When he comes up a couple of years, you're going to be talking to John and he's coming up with his American flag wolf T-shirts, and he has a Tom and Jerry T-shirt.  He's got awful green shorts.   
He's just -- that's the thing, he doesn't laugh.  I'm laughing at him.  I'm really not laughing with him.  I'm laughing at him.  Another funny guy is Michael Hill.  He's my classmate.  He's hilarious.  I'm just trying to see, as coaches, funny coach.  Ever get a chance talk to coach stud he'll have you rolling on the floor.  Funny people.   
 Q.  J.T., you mentioned Coach Montgomery recruiting you when he was at Baylor, what was your relationship like with him and how do you think you would have fit into that Baylor-type spread offense?  
J.T. BARRETT: Relationship, I talked to him a couple of times.  I went to Baylor Junior Day and sat down and talked to them, but it wasn't -- I guess it wasn't anything bad.   
It was just where I was thinking about the whole Baylor system, like I really liked their offense; but as far as winning a national championship, that's all I wanted to do, and I didn't see that happening at Baylor.  That's why I came here.   
But me fitting in the offense, I think what they do, they play fast, which is great, a lot of power run stuff and throw verticals down the field.  So it's a lot of explosive plays.   
 Q.  Is the quarterback -- you say what they're doing now at Tulsa, what they do at Baylor -- similar to what you do at Ohio State, or how is it a little bit different?  
J.T. BARRETT: I have no idea what they do at Tulsa, honestly.   
 Q.  Now that he's at Tulsa?  
J.T. BARRETT: It's the same type thing?  Yeah, I think it's different, just because we do a lot of -- I guess it's power run as well, but I guess I think we run the ball more.   
They do a lot of more play action but probably don't run the ball as much.  But I don't know.  I'm not a -- I don't analyze, I guess, offenses like that.  So I don't know.   
 Q.  Another question.  After Houston's win, what do you think of Coach Herman, and do you think Houston could be a playoff contender?  
J.T. BARRETT: Coach Herm.  Big Herm.  Yeah, I think -- I mean, I wouldn't bet against Coach Herman.  He's a great coach.  I think he does a great job of getting his guys ready to play, despite who it may be.  And as far as them being a playoff contender, I mean, I don't know, that's really not my job.  I just go out there, try to win football games.   
 Q.  There's no doubt now statistically that you were very good at taking your team to the end zone, with either you scoring or throwing a touchdown pass.  You set the Big Ten record two years ago for that.  You set the school record Saturday.  As you analyze yourself, what is it about you being able to get your team to the end zone?  Can you describe, I guess, your mindset or whatever it is that's given you a knack for that?  Obviously that's your ultimate goal every time anyway.  
J.T. BARRETT: I think the way I think about it if we go into a drive, just positive plays.  And I think with that -- it could be two yards.  But just make sure that we keep on progressing going forward.   
And I don't know if that's something that a lot of people may think about, but I know it's just, like, say we're trying to take a shot and we take a shot and the shot's not there and they cover it.   
Well, it's okay.  You hit a check down and let Mike Weber, Curtis Samuel, Dontre run for seven yards.  It's a whole lot easier than me taking off running.   
I think it's just positive plays.  Even if it was me taking off and running, if I get four yards, it's still a positive play.  So we're not looking at a third and 12 or a third and nine.   
So trying to make it easier on ourselves as an offense.  And that's something that I think about and I think that's just as a quarterback it's something real simple you could do, is try to limit bad plays and negative plays.   
 Q.  And the other thing Saturday you had a bunch of new guys around you.  Did you find yourself, I don't know, playing more cautiously than you would like to going into your fourth year?  How did you sort of like go in with the mindset knowing, hey, the lights are on and some of these guys may not be on the same page as I am, how did you approach that as a veteran quarterback with new guys around you?  
J.T. BARRETT: Honestly, I didn't think that way at all.  Because the guys we have, whether it be a wideout or mainly just wideouts, and even tight end, Marcus, they've been here for a couple of years, so they know our offense.   
They went through it with the spring and fall camp, so we got a lot of reps in and kind of know where guys are going to be and kind of the same page.  So I don't think that was something I really thought about because the guys they've been here they know the offense and we got a lot of reps.  So that wasn't a thing at all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT