BATTLEFROG FIESTA BOWL: NOTRE DAME VS OHIO STATE
December 30, 2015
J.T. Barrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  From the secondary they lost a couple guys yesterday.  How does that affect you, what you saw on the film, what you planned?  
J.T. BARRETT: Really doesn't have an effect on us offensively.  I think it's a little late coming close to the game as far as changing something up.   
With that, I don't think anything's going to change.  They'll probably have some young guys, people not normally in that position defensively.   
I don't think it's really going to change anything.  I know it's not going to change anything for us.   
 Q.  How did that connection with Malik get started?  
J.T. BARRETT: In 2011, we went to the Elite 11 out in California.  From there, just grew a relationship talking to him.  He's from Ohio.  Last year during the season they had a fall break, he came, we hung out.   
He's a good dude.  We just talk periodically.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
J.T. BARRETT: When it came to his injury, I broke my ankle, he broke his.  Main thing I told him is, No need to rush anything.  You're going to have a lot of time to recover.  At spring ball, you don't feel you're ready to go, you still have time.  It's not like you're pressed for time.   
I told him to make sure he goes through rehab, don't rush back and do anything crazy.   
As far as competition, he had competition with Everett Golson.  He did handle that well in the spring.  He had something going along the lines that we did at Ohio State.   
I think he'll do a great job if there's a competition next year.   
 Q.  How often are you in touch since the bowl stuff came out?  
J.T. BARRETT: Yeah, I talked to him the other night, saw him and talked to him for a little bit.   
We talk like every three weeks.  When he was playing, I would talk to him, Good luck.  He did the same thing for me, texting.   
 Q.  You're not drinking coffee, are you?  
J.T. BARRETT: This is tea, green tea, peppermint.   
 Q.  Why green tea?  
J.T. BARRETT: I'm not a coffee drinker and don't like black tea.   
But we're in Arizona enjoying the festivities of the Fiesta Bowl.  I mean, it's really nice out here, to be honest with you.  Ohio doesn't have mountains.   
 Q.  No cactus either.  
J.T. BARRETT: Don't have cactus.  Don't get close to those.  Nice out here.  Columbus gets cloudy this time of year.  Nice to see the sun in December, heading to January.   
 Q.  You're a Texas guy, so you see the sun down there.  
J.T. BARRETT: Definitely see a sun a lot more.  No, it's good out here.  It's not hot like in Texas.  I went home for Texas before we came here, it was 70 degrees.  I wasn't mad.  It gets cold at night, too.  I wasn't aware of that, being in the desert.  It's good.   
 Q.  How has this season been for you?  How do you feel?  
J.T. BARRETT: I'm good.  I feel like I'm at a good place, mentally and physically.  I feel comfortable with what we're doing.  We're sitting on a game plan for Friday.  I'm comfortable, like I say, with the offense and where our team is at.   
 Q.  I've never met a quarterback that doesn't want to light it up, throw the ball, just light it up.  Do you feel like you guys could be on the verge of doing that?  
J.T. BARRETT: I mean, I feel like honestly, at any time, we're able to do that, given the players we have, the plays we have in place.  Like I said, anytime that could happen.   
We're not like on the verge of anything.  Any game this year, we were on the verge of making that happen.  That's something definitely as a quarterback you want, putting up a lot of numbers rushing.   
 Q.  This is a good Notre Dame football you're going to play.  
J.T. BARRETT: This is a good football team.  I think they play well defensively, react to plays.  It's going to be a game that we're going to have to be locked in on, be good on adjustments.  They had a month to prepare.  Have a new package or something that we haven't seen on film.  Got to be able to adjust in the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT