OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2017
J.T. Barrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 48, Michigan State -3   
 Q.  J.T., can you describe what this last week has been like for this team and how necessary this kind of performance was?  
J.T. BARRETT: So one of my things, intent focus, getting back to what we do fundamentally; our culture, four to six, A to B plus two, competitive excellence and power to the unit, get back to those things.   
And I think just focus, make sure every little detail, cover all our bases when it comes to practice.   
 Q.  You guys always celebrate your wins and that beating Michigan State the way you guys just did is, I'm assuming, a gratifying feeling.  But is there ever a time in retrospect you think, man, what if things would have gone differently the week before, after winning a game like that and being in control in the Big Ten?  
J.T. BARRETT: We can't go back in the past, of course.  We try to move on, learn from things, learn from losses.  That's what we did today.  We grew from it being able to perform the way we did today.   
 Q.  From your vantage point, what did you see the offensive line has done in front of you guys today?  Can you describe their performance?  
J.T. BARRETT: Offensive line, I mean, when you play like that, really makes my job a whole lot easier.  I think one of the main things with them is changing the line of scrimmage.  Those linebackers, they usually shoot the gap, Michigan State.  So it's hard to get double teams on those guys.   
But being that they were getting so much push off the ball with the "D" linemen, it was a great thing for them.  So they met the backers instead of on the line of scrimmage, they met them three yards downfield.  And our running backs did a great job making that unblocked defender miss and got some big hits.   
 Q.  Mike Weber has got some criticism that people say he doesn't have that home run speed.  To see the two that he hit today, from your vantage point, was it just a matter of him getting healthy, or did it mean more for you guys as teammates to see him hit some of those?  
J.T. BARRETT: Yeah, I didn't really hear that.  We know what he could do.  He's done it in practice.  Where he was at last year, then just his second year of playing, and we know he's able to do that.  So that wasn't my thing, really.   
 Q.  In 2015 you guys lost to Michigan State and then went up to Michigan the next week and ran the ball and won big.  You ran the ball today and won big after a loss.  Is there something about a loss that gets you guys rededicated to the run game and being physical?  
J.T. BARRETT: I think at times -- I don't know.  I feel like after a loss you want to get back to what you're good at and establishing the run game.  It definitely helps out with who we are in play-action pass and making our shots downfield.  So just getting back to who you are, whether it be fundamentals or even when it comes to offensively and defensively making calls and things like that.  So all of that intertwines.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT