PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 29, 2016
J.T. Barrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on what Jadar Johnson said?  
J.T. BARRETT: So I really wasn't -- there wasn't a lot to it, I feel like.  He has his own opinion, which I'm not mad at.  I'm comfortable in my skills and what I'm able to do.  If he feels like I'm not the best quarterback they went against, I mean, that's just how he feels.   
I don't have a feeling towards that one way or the other.  I mean, I'm okay, really.  Like, it wasn't I feel like a lot to talk about.  I saw what he said.   
There's probably some people that feel like that in the media, which is cool, too.  They have the right to their own opinion.  It's not for me to fight my stance.  I know how I feel about myself, comfortable in my skills and the guys we have on our offense and our team.   
So that's how it is.   
 Q.  Some of his teammates were -- even his teammates were saying that's something that made them mad and motivated them.  Does that motivate you?  
J.T. BARRETT: I mean, that's like it's not anything crazy, I feel like.  It's not like we're going to hang it up on the game-day bulletin board and this is what this guy said -- like, we're okay.  We're good.  You know what I'm saying?  We're good.   
Somebody in the past says something about our defense, and we saw how that went.  That's how we feel about that.  We're okay.  If you want to talk, that's okay.  We still have to go play the game.  That's what I feel like.   
 Q.  Do you prefer a high-scoring or low-scoring game?  
J.T. BARRETT: Well, this is what I would prefer.  I would prefer us score a lot of points and they score not as many points.  But, no, I think for us --   
 Q.  What do you anticipate?  
J.T. BARRETT: I anticipate -- I mean, honestly, I'm not sure really.  I think our defense is going to do a great job.  I think we're going to, on offense, I think we're going to do our part in order to win a game.  So honestly I'm not sure.  Like I said, it could be either or honestly it could be a high-scoring game where both offenses are on attack mode, and it also could be one of those low-scoring games where the defense is honing in.   
With that being said, really not sure, just try to make sure that, on offense, we do our part and be at our best and not have our defense on the field.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
J.T. BARRETT: I mean, it was one of those things I couldn't do anything about it, you know what I'm saying?  I broke my leg or my ankle and it was, like I said, I couldn't do anything about it.  It wasn't like one of those things, like, I was skateboarding and I fell off the curb or something.  And I was playing in a game trying to help us win a football game.  And my ankle broke.   
So it was one of those things I really couldn't do anything about it.  I was okay about it.  And it wasn't, like, I was bitter.  I was still excited and all those things.  That's how it was.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
J.T. BARRETT: So fortunately, like I said, God has placed us in the position to go fight for it all once again which we're definitely excited about, just to be able to be at Ohio State, have the guys we have here, everybody that's part of the Ohio State program and Buckeye Nation and be part of this once again.  A lot of people can only say they've been part of it twice, that's one of those things.  It's exciting.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
J.T. BARRETT: Yeah, I think one of those things is like we have an older team like everybody focused in and understands what they need to do, whereas like the young guys, a lot of them just don't know.  And that's okay.   
So you try to do your best to help them get acclimated to our culture, our system, how we do things.  And so with that we're just trying to do that this year with the older guys we have on the team to help them out and make sure that they could still be at their best and make sure that they understand our culture and who we are.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
J.T. BARRETT: So offensively, one of the main things is just make sure we stay true to who we are in the fundamentals.  That's the thing we talk about early on in the bowl season was fundamentals, make sure you hone in on those, get back to those, because they kind of, I don't want to say they fade away, but when we went like probably a week and a half or the days added up to like a week where we didn't practice, we don't want to get away from our fundamentals knowing that you have to get back to that when it comes to bowl season, whether it be defense, tackling, offense, pass setting, run blocking, holding on to the ball, things like that.  Pass and catch downfield.  So the fundamentals of the game, just getting back to those because as the season goes you don't have a lot of that individual time.   
So getting back to that, and then, like I said, just being true to who we are, getting as far as like our offensive game plan, things like that, seeing throughout the season what we have done well and what we need to improve on, those different things.   
And the things we needed to improve on we addressed those things and try to get better at those.  And then, too, the things that we're good at, just try to make sure we enhance them and get better at those things.   
 Q.  Talk about the brotherhood of this team, what makes this team so special?  
J.T. BARRETT: I think it's part of the Ohio State brand.  I think somebody put on that scarlet and gray, it's part of a different fraternity.  It's one of those things you don't really understand unless you've done it type of feel.  And that's just guys that have been here in the past and the guys here also now.   
The Buckeyes we have here right now, I think we have a great bond.  There's a lot of love and passion throughout the players that we have and understanding that the guys I feel like will do anything for one another, which is something that you need as the season goes forward in times and games like this where it gets kind of tight.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
J.T. BARRETT: It's a lot.  They like to switch it up.  I feel like it's one of the type of teams or kind of mindsets that they don't really want to you catch a beat on what they're trying to do.  Their game plans kind of switch each and every game depending on whatever offense they're going against.   
So with that being said, when you watch film, it changes game to game, and what they feel like is the best way to attack a certain offense.  Which that does create problems being that you kind of really, you have a feel to a certain extent of what they want to do, but then they also throw something crazy at you that you've never seen before.   
So I think throughout this bowl practice I think our coaches have been trying to do their best to make sure we get the multiple looks that we can on different plays and situations.  So with that being said, I think we're trying to do our best with that and that's the best we can do.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) showing the blitz and not backing off --  
J.T. BARRETT: Not really.  It could be one of those things where they could not show blitz and then look to a certain line and check into it really fast and get into it.   
So it's one of those things is, I mean, you really don't know.  Like I said it could be showing in the blitz and getting out of it or it could be not showing a blitz, get into a blitz, changing just different coverages, the front.  So it just changes as a whole.  Not really just going in and out of blitzes.   
 Q.  Anything you dial in specifically (indiscernible)?  
J.T. BARRETT: Not really.  I feel like there was -- I mean, I guess we do look at film where offenses are similar.  So we looked at a Virginia Tech.  We looked at a Louisville, things like that, where we kind of have seen different formations, not really plays but same formations -- how they line up certain formations if you catch a bead on the coverage that they like to play to a formation.   
But I mean that's with any team.  So with that, I mean, you've still got a variety of things even with that.  So no problem.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT