COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2016
Clarke Lutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CLARKE LUTTON: It was pretty good.  I was a little bit nervous if I'm honest, first European Tour event.  It was a good, solid round.  Didn't make too many mistakes and just stuck to my game plan really.   
 Q.  Was it good to play alongside Andrew McArthur?  
CLARKE LUTTON: Yeah, never met him before but nice to play with him.  He's a nice guy.  Kind of kept me fairly relaxed out there.   
 Q.  When did you feel at your ease?  
CLARKE LUTTON: Probably my second shot.  First shot was a bit nerve-wracking if I'm honest.  But second shot, I managed to just get kind of into the feel of things and just carried on from there.   
 Q.  Tell me, I gather you've got a bit of history here, so you know how the winds can blow and what to expect.  
CLARKE LUTTON: I grew up here.  I actually started the game out here.  I was here for 11 years.  Yeah, the wind can fairly blow around here, so I was quite happy to get a good, solid round in.  Hopefully it doesn't blow too hard tomorrow but I think it's forecast to get stronger and stronger.  We'll just see how it goes.   
 Q.  Does that mean your father was in the oil industry out here?  
CLARKE LUTTON: He was in the oil industry, yeah.  He was in recruitment for the oil and gas industry, so he dragged us out here, sadly.   
 Q.  A part of the world you enjoy?  I know you play on the MENA Tour and you won last year, as well, didn't you?  
CLARKE LUTTON: Yeah, I've been out in the Middle East now 15 years, so it's a part of the world I really enjoy playing golf in.  As you say, I played on the MENA Tour the last couple years and just enjoy being out here.  It's good fun.   
 Q.  And a different kind of style in life, with McArthur and others, you can tell what living out here is like.  
CLARKE LUTTON: Yeah, it's a different lifestyle out here, completely different lifestyle.  It's almost false but it's good fun all the same.   
 Q.  Golf-wise, ambitions?  
CLARKE LUTTON: Golf-wise, it's great out here to play golf.  For me, the dream is to be playing week-in, week-out but I'm going to keep focusing on Asia just this year, which is where I've got kind of status, so just see how that goes and see if I can progress my way up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT