NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 27, 2014
Alex Galchenyuk
Max Pacioretty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MAX PACIORETTY:   It seems like each game that he plays he looks more and more comfortable in there.   As a player playing in the finals, we have a lot of confidence in him.

Q.   When the puck is dropped, do you even focus on who the goalie is back there?   There was a big deal about Carey at first?
MAX PACIORETTY:   No, not at all anymore.   You mentioned, you don't see goalies get hurt too often, so at first it's kind of a tough pill to swallow.   But now that since Game 1 we've had confidence in Dustin, but each game he's gotten better and better, and I think that confidence has gone to a whole new level, and as you mentioned, I don't think about it at all.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MAX PACIORETTY:   Yeah, I don't know lines yet.   But we haven't done a good enough job getting pucks to the net, myself personally, and in the last game especially.   I had a few opportunities in that game and weren't able to do it.   So coaches are getting, as you mentioned, sometimes mixing things up to try to get guys going.

Q.   What difference has Lundqvist made in this series?
MAX PACIORETTY:   Yeah, he's been really good.   There is been good goaltending on both sides.   The last two games could go either way.   It's playoffs.   At this point of the playoffs, the goalies are the best player on every team, and I think that is the case for all four teams.

Q.   Do you take from your experience against Boston?   Do you take any lessons from this? 
MAX PACIORETTY:   Yeah, it's definitely possible.   But we've got to focus on one game at a time.   We've got this win tonight, and then we've got to say to ourselves we're in the same position we were in against the best team in the league and we came out victorious.   So at the end of the day you want to worry about the end picture, but the only chance we have is one game, one period at a time. 
ALEX GALCHENYUK:   I'm going to try to do it tonight.   I'm going to play my best hockey tonight, and it doesn't really matter at this point how I've felt the last few games.   I want to bring everything and play my hardest.

Q.   How do you play your best game in this series, Alex? 
ALEX GALCHENYUK:   I mean, not close enough.   If we were playing our best hockey you wouldn't be seeing this right now.   Again, they're a good team, but we can't be focused on them.   We know we can play better, and we know we will, so we're confident in that.

Q.   Your neighbor said a few minutes ago that it's pretty simple, but we've had an incredible ride with the fans here in Montreal.   We don't want to stop this tonight.   Is that your mindset too? 
ALEX GALCHENYUK:   Yeah, for sure.   They give us a lot of great energy and we have fun playing here, obviously.   We're getting energized from the crowd, and I'm sure the crowd will be fully into the game, and I personally can't wait to go‑‑ I mean, we've got to win this game as simple as that.   We all know that and can't wait. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT