WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2015
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Webb, I know it wasn't the Sunday charge you were looking for.   It had to be great to play in front of these fans here at your home course.  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah.   It was a memorable week, nonetheless.   And you know, Rory is a great player.   I knew I would have to come out, something low today and certainly par wasn't going to get it done.   Disappointed but at the same time he played well and no bogies, I don't think, or except 17 but he played solid and he's a tough guy to beat today.  
   
 Q.   What does this week do for your game?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   We're trying to get better.   I feel like it's a great week.   I'm going to take a lot of positives from this week and keep working, moving forward.  
   
 Q.   Driving over early what were your chances ever of making a charge?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I hit some loose shots early.   Drive on 1 and 3, you know, missed the green on 6 but I had five feet for par and three-putted.   
Through 6 I made so many mistakes, probably more mistakes than I had all week.   That was kind of a killer to be couple over through 6 with Rory playing pretty solid.  
   
 Q.   When he's playing that well and he's hitting it 350, hitting fairways, what's it like trying to play catch up?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's tough.   You know, you never expect him to hit bad shots so you know you got to be that much sharper and that much more on your game.   
So it is a little difficult.   But, you know, it was fun to watch him play well.   He's our best player right now and, you know, I wish more than anything I could have shot a couple under on the front to make it more exciting.   Didn't have it today.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel the momentum a little bit after you made that putt on 2?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was so early.   You know, I birdied there.   He missed his putt.   So I thought, you know, it was a good feeling to be kind of get a couple back that I didn't expect.   But still had a long ways to go.  
   
 Q.   Are there positives you take out of this week?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah.   Felt like my ball-striking is getting better and fundamentally we're getting better.   Putting it, getting better although I putted terrible today.   Confidence-wise, I still feel I'm kind of moving in the right direction.   That's all I wanted out of this season more than anything.  
   
 Q.   With you playing this round with such a big lead that he had, is there any pressure to try to put some pressure on him?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   No.   I mean for us guys on Tour when you relax you seem to play worse.   I felt like we always play better if we need to hit shots, need to make something happen, we all seem to play a little better and, you know, today being 6 back or whatever it was, you know, early, I had to do a lot of self-talking, try to get myself back into it mentally.  
   
 Q.   Did you find anything like an edge that Rory was using that you would like to try?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT