WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2015
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Webb Simpson, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a successful 5-under 67, Round 2.   Find yourself in ideal position heading into the weekend.   
Just a few comments on that.   We know you've got a birthday celebration to get to.   We'll keep it short and sweet.  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah.   It was a similar day to yesterday.   I only made two bogies today.   Both were caused by poor iron shots on the front on 3 and 6.   But other than that, played nicely.   
Put together a good 9 holes on the back and certainly 9 and 17 were fun to chip-in.   I don't think I've ever chipped in twice on Tour in one round.   So, it was fun and tons of support out there for me so that was awesome as well.  
DOUG MILNE:   We'll jump in and take a few questions.  
   
 Q.   Webb, at this point, leading the tournament, is it good or bad to be at home?   Are you going to be able to focus?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think it's good.   I don't feel anymore pressure now that I'm tied for the lead or however it ends up in the lead.   The end goal is to shoot as many under as I can and I'm 10 shots closer to whatever that number I need to get to may be.   
But, you know, today was -- I can't imagine more support than today.   I saw so many people, friends and family and heard my name a lot.   I'm sure tomorrow will be fun and you know I think if I'm 1-over at any point tomorrow early in the round I think that support will help me.   Kind of rooting for me, birdies will mean more.   It will be fun.  
   
 Q.   Webb, do you think local knowledge helps you at all now or guys can learn the course?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think it helps a little bit.   Just knowing, you know, where to miss it for the pins we're playing, I think that helps.   I think knowing when tendencies -- the wind on 7 and the wind on all the holes around the back always swirls.   I think that helps, those little kind of the little things but, yeah, like I said, the best player is going to win this week no matter how many times somebody has played it.   But I definitely feel a little sense of comfort knowing I've been here so much.  
   
 Q.   The two holes you chipped in, did you know exactly what they were going to do when they landed?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I had the shot on 17 a lot.   I hit in the bowl area a ton but, no, it didn't help.  
   
 Q.   How often do you play out here each year?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   You know, if I'm home 25 weeks in a year I'll play usually one to two rounds a week so not a ton but, you know, Charlotte has got some great courses.   I like to switch it up and play elsewhere also which lowers the rounds.  
DOUG MILNE:   Anybody else.  
   
 Q.   How was playing with Bill?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's great.   I love playing with Bill.   He's a good buddy.   You know, anytime you know a guy well it helps.   We can talk about stuff other than golf and I think we're playing together as partners later this summer at CVS.   So, just little tune-up for that.   I played a lot of golf with Bill and really enjoy it.  
DOUG MILNE:   Webb, we appreciate your time.   Best of luck.  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT