SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2014
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A bogey‑free round by Webb Simpson.   65, that's a good number.   What were you doing so well?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think I just kept it right in front of me.   That's what I did last year on this golf course.   If you keep hitting the fairways, you're going to have opportunities to make birdie.   I made some putts today, didn't make many yesterday.   All around just a good, solid day.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier this week that you feel when you take a little bit of a break before a tournament that you have a new kind of energy.   What is the difference when you come back from a break?   
WEBB SIMPSON:   I'm much more mentally sharp.   You know, bad bounces don't bother me as much.   I commit to conservative lines a lot better.   When I'm playing a lot of tournaments in a row, a lot of rounds in a row, I'll try to force things a little more, so I think I'm just more patient and overall just a better player, better guy when I get some time off.  
   
 Q.   Of course this is an offensive golf course.   24 under was the winning score last year.   Of course right now the numbers are not quite on track to be as low as they were last year.   Do you have a reason for that?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think the greens are more firm this year, and when you don't hit it in play here, this golf course is so well designed that if you do drive it in play, you've got a wedge and you're probably going to have a good opportunity for birdie, but when you're in the rough the greens are so undulating and the slopes are so severe that it's tough to get the ball on the green.   So when you have the greens a little more firm, I think that's why you're seeing the scores a little bit worse than last year.   
   
 Q.   17 of 18 greens, bogey‑free in the second round.   
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, it was a good day, one of those days that you really enjoy because it seems pretty easy, so it was nice to bounce back after what I felt like I left a couple shots out there yesterday in my round.   Today was good, nothing really jumped out, it was just kind of ball in the fairway, ball on the green, and made a few putts.  
   
 Q.   Really nice playing at the turn when you ripped off three birdies in a row.   Always good to birdie that third hole.   
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, third hole is tough.   I'd take four pars there before I tee it up in the tournament.   So that was a bonus.   It was kind of a nice little string there in the middle of the round.  
   
 Q.   I thought the greens might be a little firmer this year.   I know they were firmer on Thursday afternoon.   Were they more receptive in the afternoon, or did they still have a little fire in them?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   They still had some fire in them.   On 13 I hit a full lob wedge that released five years, which normally never does, especially here, so they're more firm than last year.   I don't know if it's weather related or if they wanted the scores to be a little worse, but yeah, it's a good challenge.  
   
 Q.   As defending champion, a distraction, a pleasant one?   You have many more media duties, fan opportunities as a defending champion.   
WEBB SIMPSON:   No, it's good.   If you have a lot of people pulling at you, it's usually a sign of good play.   It doesn't bother me.   I always enjoy talking to you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT