THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2014
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was a great round of golf, 7‑under 63, 10 under in the house.   So your thoughts on how it went out there today.  
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was good.   Really thankful for a good last 27 holes.   Feel like I've been playing well for a while now, just not getting anything going.   And you know, I had Philippians 4, a couple verses that I just kind of kept meditating on and kind of kept me patient, and putts started dropping and today was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   You want that one back at 16 again, don't you?   Almost?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, 16 and 17.   I had 5‑wood in the middle of the fairway on 17 and made par.   
You know, us golfers, we're always thinking what it could have been, but all in all a good day, and it's going to be windy and play tough for the guys coming in.  
   
 Q.   With the leaders out there, just your thoughts on the course setup.   I guess the two par‑5s you can get to today in two?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah.   They did a good job, really all week, but they set it up in a way, it's still challenging, but there's certain holes where you really have to attack and try to make some birdies.  
   
 Q.   What's been the difference, though?   You had the great start of the season.   Then there was kind of the lull in there.   The third at Memphis.   Looks like you're finding your game again.  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I think we got into a few bad swing habits there in March and April, and it really took us a while to figure it out.   And once we did, the swing's gotten better, and finally we saw a good result there in Memphis, like you said, and so we're constantly trying to manage everything, and hopefully we don't get in too many bad habits.  
   
 Q.   New baby.   You getting enough sleep?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I am.   Yep.   I have a great wife who lets me sleep.   So yeah, I've been fine.   She hadn't been getting much sleep, but we're on the up rise, I think.  
   
 Q.   Finally, 10‑under, the leaders are at 12 right now.   Are you going to hang around here and see what's going to happen?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I don't know.   We'll see.   I'm going to watch a little bit, I think, before we go, but probably hit the road.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Well then you can turn on the golf on the radio.  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Then I can listen to you.  
   
 Q.   Webb, you go from maybe having to go home early and coming back with a 63 today.   That kind of tells you how this game is sometimes, huh?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah.   Actually did go home.   We flew home on Friday.   And when we landed, I'd made the cut, so I had to rent a car and drive back.   And then yesterday it was looking like I was going to miss the Saturday cut for a while, but had a good back side.   And you know, it feels great to finish this tournament off, a tournament I love, and sponsor that's been great to me with a good round and leave me with a good feeling for next year.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, does it almost make you feel justified to come back and really show them how you can play?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I've always felt really comfortable on this golf course ever since I came here in 2010.   And I never pieced together four good rounds, and hopefully next year I can continue what I've done the last 24 hours.  
   
 Q.   And you talked this week about the Ryder Cup and trying to move your way.   You may have impressed and opened a few eye balls today, huh?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah.   I mean I think Tom knows what's going on, and I'm hoping my good play will take care of it and not have to be a captain's pick, but if I was a captain's pick, it would be great to be on that team.   So it was fun to be with Tom last Thursday and Friday, and he's still a great competitor, so he knows what's going on out here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT