WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2014
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Webb Simpson, just a couple of days ago was telling us he's frustrated with his game.   You go out and you post a 68, I know you bogeyed the last, but I'm guessing that gave you a little bit more confidence? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It did.   You know, I made 7 birdies today and that was a huge, positive accomplishment today.   The golf course played tough today, it's tough to figure out the wind, and the greens were firm.   So any day you have 7 birdies, whether it's here or Bob Hope, is a good day.   Yeah, I wish I didn't bogey the last but all in all a great start. 

Q.   In your five appearances prior to this year you have just one top‑5 finish here at the Wells Fargo Championship, which may be surprising considering that you are a member here at Quail Hollow.   How do you manage your emotions and your mentality for the week? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's tough.   My first couple of years I missed the cut, that was actually before I was a member.   That's my excuse!   (Chuckles.)   I've learned to use all the energy from all the people here supporting me in a good way.   And it makes it more of fun when you play well, so I relax in a sense because I know it so well.   I know the golf course and I know the breaks, and it's relaxing knowing I don't have to play that hard. 

Q.   I know we have a lot of golf to play, but you are a Charlotte guy, you've won in the Carolinas, you won at Sedgefield, your first event championship.   How special would it be to win this championship for you? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It would be really special, especially living close by, having gotten so many rounds here under my belt and it feels like home. 
This is one of those spots where I don't put too much pressure on myself to win but it would definitely be a sweet one to get done and hopefully more after that. 

Q.   Great first‑round score, solid 68, got it to 5‑under at one point.   How was it out there for you because everything was going great until the 9th hole, really. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I made 7 birdies, so to do that on a day where it was windy was exciting, and obviously I would like to get No. 9 and 18 but two tough holes.   I made a dumb mistake on 9, 18 is going to happen, tough up and down there, tough putt, but wished I finished a little better but still a great start and that's all I can ask for on Thursday. 

Q.   You must like that change at 16 because you birdie the par 5, 15, and you stick it in there 12 feet away on 16. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, 16 we hit‑‑ Ernie and I hit good drives today and got it way down there and able to hit 9‑iron.   The last few weeks I've been hitting hybrid and 4‑iron into that hole so it was a nice change‑up. 

Q.   You have to feel the energy around this place when the folks stand and applaud and watch you perform.   It's got to be great for your confidence as you play out here at Quail Hollow Club. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It is.   I see a lot of familiar face and it's fun to try to play well and, you know, it was nice to have people clapping for me when I go up to the green because I'm not used to it.   Normally they're doing it for Ernie and Phil and Tiger, and it feels great to be home, and I always look forward to this week on the calendar. 

Q.   Talk about your opening round. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was a good day.   Two blemishes, 9 and 18, but other than that, to be able to make 7 birdies with how windy it was out there, I'm really pleased.   I gained a lot of confidence from today going into the weekend. 

Q.   Talk about the conditions.   Seemed like the wind was gusting at times, laying down a little bit as well. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was.   It stayed the same direction pretty much all day but it blew a lot harder than I expected and turned a lot of holes that are normally pretty easy to play pretty tough.   I thought Paul and I did a great job of communicating about where we think the wind is going, and the golf course was a lot more firm than I expected as well, because we got a lot of rain, and balls are running out a good amount. 

Q.   You have a comfort level with this golf course obviously for you, so when you have that hiccup on 9 and rebound, how does the comfort level help you with that? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It helps me in the sense that I know what to expect.   I've seen all these pins, I've seen these wind directions, so going to the back nine I knew I had 10, 11, 12, being down wind, 14, 15, so I knew there was opportunities on the backside, tried to stay patient, although I was frustrated after 9. 

Q.   You said you found something at the Masters but didn't score well that week, but is this a continuation of what you found? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think so.   We played well at the Masters, just didn't score well and we're continuing to work on the same thing.   You know, today, under pressure after two and a half weeks off I felt pretty good about it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Webb.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT