THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 8, 2013
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rounds of 65 and 68 for Webb Simpson.   How good was today's round considering those conditions?
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was good.   You know, I knew before I played I would take anything under par, and as the day went on, it slowly‑‑ you know, the wind slowly decreased but it was great to get a Kim under and still be right there in the tournament.   I'm either tied for the lead or one back.   So all I wanted for the day.

Q.   What's the biggest challenge after Thursday, no wind, and today, completely different animal?
WEBB SIMPSON:   It is.   I mean you gotta‑‑ I think game plan before the round on club selection so you don't get to a hole and you're shocked and you don't know what to do.   That was big for us.   We talked about it before the round.   And we had a good game plan and it didn't really change much.

Q.   How do you move forward Saturday knowing you got another chance?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think continue to execute, try to keep hitting good shots, and this golf course, if you're not careful you can make some bogeys pretty quick, but if you're hitting it in the fairway and you're hitting good shots, you'll have plenty of birdie opportunities, and I think tomorrow's weather looks pretty good, so hopefully we can continue to play well.

Q.   Webb, 2‑under par, 68.   Are you happy with that round?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I am.   I mean I think today it was one of those days where anything under par was a good day.   I know there was a lot of high scores.   It played tough all day.   The wind died a little bit, but it was still much harder today than yesterday.

Q.   You're leading the local residents here in the tournament as well.   Does that have special significance for you?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Not really.   Only halfway home.   If I'm leading after four days, then it will.   But we got a lot of golf to play and a lot of good players right there.   The leaderboard seems bunched, so I gotta continue to go out and play good golf.

Q.   This wrap‑around season seems to be favoring you so far.   How do you like it?
WEBB SIMPSON:   You know, I like the venues we've played at, but you know, it's going to take some getting used to, I think, but certainly playing well in Vegas is going to let me play a little lighter schedule, I think, starting the new year on the West Coast.

Q.   The course is going to play considerably differently tomorrow.   How do you plan to attack it?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Well, you know, you gotta be careful out here not to make too many stupid mistakes.   Hopefully I'll have a lot of birdie opportunities. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT