SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 20, 2013
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   At any point on you thinking out of the moment, oh, boy, I don't want to screw this up.   What can I do?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Not really.   I had a couple good verses all week, and I just want to thank my God, Jesus Christ for just giving me strength today.   I know I couldn't have done it without His presence.   And Chesson, it was good to play with him.   We're good buddies and he's a jokester.   He was laughing a lot. 
Once I hit it over the green on 17, I figured it was enough.   That's when I asked Paul how many we were leading by, and anything but left on 18, so since the right shot.

Q.   That's great.   You're back in the winner's circle, back to Hawaii.   What does that mean to you?
WEBB SIMPSON:   It means the world.   I mean this year, I feel like I've gotten better.   I just haven't gotten a win.   I was close in Hilton Head, but I've been working hard and it's just nice to finish the year off with a W and get back to Hawaii.

Q.   Well, it's even a start of the year, the season starts.   Does that change your goal for 2014?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think so.   You know, we'll still reevaluate in December.   I got one more tournament in Sea Island, but yeah, I mean I might play a little less now, just given that the better you play, the less you have to play.   So we'll see, but looking forward to finishing off the year strong.

Q.   (Inaudible) winning the United States Open at Olympic Club?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I did a little bit.   I knew there was a lot of pressure on me.   I moved way up in the world rankings, and I knew a lot of people, you know, they start looking at you and watching you every week, and I seem like more of a guy who kind of popped up for a little while and then didn't hear from me again.
I felt like I learned to deal with it towards the end of the year and felt a lot better mentally this year.

Q.   Well, congratulations, Webb. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Thanks, Scott.

Q.   How about get it early, those early birdies on 2 and 3 really kind of made it easy for you. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It did.   That was the start that you and I were talking about that I wanted to get, one over through three yesterday and 2‑under today felt like a huge difference, and it was, because it really let me kind of slow down and pace myself, and you know, try to let the guys come after me.

Q.   You don't want to say it but you know if you make a bogey there's a glimmer of hope and otherwise these guys gotta force the issue and now they get the opportunity to make the mistakes. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah.   That was the thing.   I wanted to get a feel for the golf course and as we were going kind of middle of the round, pins were tough, greens were drying out and I knew that it would take a really special round for somebody to shoot 7, 8 under, so I felt like I was in control and I asked my caddie Paul once I hit it on the green on 17 where we stood and I was just thankful that I was able to kind of manage my golf ball the last couple holes.

Q.   Did you know that putt on the last hole meant you tied the tournament record here?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I didn't know that.   I was just trying to get up there close.

Q.   Great playing and congratulations.   You played great, tee to green, putting great.   I love the way you're playing quicker.   Looks like you're free and you're more athletic, having fun. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Thanks so much.   I appreciate it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT