THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 7, 2013
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How are you approaching it scheduling‑wise?   Some people want to Asia.   You're maybe a little different path?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I didn't really know what I was going to do.   I wanted to go over to Asia, but it just didn't work out with my family plans.   
Vegas was kind of a late addition.   I'm glad I added it.   You know, it is something that we're adjusting to.   Thankfully these sponsors are stepping up and providing great golf tournaments.  
   
 Q.   What does a win like that early in the season do for you?   Almost hate to say changing goals this early, but what does that do in terms of your checklist?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Well, it helps because I kind of had the opposite year last year.   You know, I played good solid golf but I never got a win.   So all year I'm trying to win.   
It's nice to go ahead and get that done early.   But I want to stay focused.   I think it's really easy to become complacent because I've already won.   I want to stay hungry and continue to work hard.  
   
 Q.   There was a fog delay earlier and it turned perfect.   That was a beautiful first round by you.   
WEBB SIMPSON:   Thanks.   It felt good to get off to a good start, especially with how nice it is today.   The wind is down, which is rare at this golf course.   But good solid golf.   I started really hitting it good and making some putts on the front nine my last few holes.   That's about all I can do on a Thursday.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the Seaside Course.   How has the layout changed to you?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's made it tougher and easier.   Tougher in the sense it's playing longer.   It's a little softer.   We're not getting much roll.   But it's easier because some of the run outs, the ball is not running out because the fairways have gotten wider.   I can kind of see it either way, but it definitely looks better.  
   
 Q.   You won early.   How does that change your approach to this wraparound season and your goals for the upcoming year?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Well, I think one thing is I can play a little less.   I can afford to play a little less.   
I think the biggest danger for someone in my position is to grow complacent and not work as hard and be as hungry.   So I want to fight against that and stay as hungry as I was last year without a win.  
   
 Q.   Birdies coming in, which ones really stand out?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I birdied ‑‑ kind of the turn there.   I birdied 18, 1 and 2 and then 4.   And then I made a nice birdie on 7, the par‑5.   I think the big one for me was 18 because I just came off two bogeys on 16, 17.   The middle of the fairway on 16.   18 is a tough hole and was playing good just not scoring well, so that was a nice one to get.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT