SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 19, 2013
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I'd like to welcome Webb Simpson.   Webb, you got it to 19‑under, you're going to go into the final round with a 4‑shot lead over Raleigh native, fellow Raleigh native, Chesson Hadley.   If you want to talk about the round today and then we'll take some questions. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, it was you know a slow start.   I just‑‑ my speed was off with the putts early on.   They looked faster, but they weren't really faster.   So I was leaving myself 6‑ and 7‑footers on the front nine.   Birdied 4 and 5 to kind of bounce back, which was nice. 
You know, the back nine is where you have got to make your birdies.   I was able to take advantage of 12, 13, 15, 16, which is kind of what you need to do to score well here. 
I didn't look at any leaderboards until I got done with 18 and saw Chesson played well.   He's a good friend.   We know a lot of the same people, so I was happy to see I get to play with him tomorrow.

Q.   Talk about the relationship. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, we played a lot in high school.   I knew he had a lot of talent.   Growing up in Raleigh, a lot of good golfers in Raleigh and in the area.   You hear, this guy is pretty good. 
The first time I played with him, I was really impressed.   We didn't play a lot in college.   I don't know if we ever played together.   But nicest kid in the world.   I'm glad he's out here on the Tour.

Q.   Is it hard to stay patient? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was.   You know, the conditions were perfect.   I knew guys were shooting low numbers.   I felt like I was playing good enough.   I just was scoring pretty bad.   Parred 9, dropped the shot at 11.   So it was frustrating. 
But, you know, my caddie just told me to stay patient and let the birdies come.   And that's what happened, I made some putts coming in.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
WEBB SIMPSON:   No, I've never heard that before.   I like it, though.

Q.   Thoughts about tomorrow. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think the key tomorrow is to, number one, stay patient again, in case I do get off to another slow start. 
But this is a golf course where guys can shoot, as we've seen this week, 8, 9, 10, 11‑under.   So I have to go out with a mindset of attacking and trying to make birdies.   The only thing protect thing that you can do on this golf course is if you have a 4 or 5‑shot lead with two holes to go.   But I've got to stay aggressive.   I have got to keep committing to shots and hit some good shots and give myself birdie opportunities.

Q.   You have to play the course as if you're three or four back?   It's like a fine line? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, exactly.   There is a fine line.   You have got to know when there is a green light and when you need to be a little cautious.   I think the key for me is when there is a green light to really be committed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT