THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2013
Webb Simpson
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you just tell me where you were, did you hear the roar?   How did it affect you?
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was tough to know what was going on.   I wasn't scoreboard watching.   I was trying to take care of business.   I was hoping it wouldn't come down to my match but looked like it was going that way for a little while.   It was fun to be in this atmosphere and to get the W. 

Q.   How was the course, obviously super wet, do you think it was playing harder than yesterday? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was hard.   The wind started blowing.   The ball is going nowhere.   Greens were good, but it was tricky. 

Q.   6‑iron, and the putt? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   I guess I hit it through the break and I putted again, and I would have missed it even with the right speed.   We just mis‑read it.

Q.   Long day, tough day, you were neck and neck; what was the difference in the end? 
RICHARD STERNE:   Well, we were just a few too many points behind.   They were quite a head of us in the foursomes, and they kind of made it really tough.   But we gave it a good go today.   We were a good side.   They made more putts than us and that's what it came down to. 

Q.   Came to the very last hole here, how aware were you of everything that was going around as your team was trying to make a late day rally? 
RICHARD STERNE:   I was keeping on eye on things and I knew if I just make a point, it can only help.   That was a pretty tough ask, but I gave Tiger a good go. 

Q.   What was it like playing against the world No. 1?
RICHARD STERNE:   I enjoyed it.   I was very relaxed and it was nice playing in front of a good crowd.   We played decent but we didn't make any putts out there.   It was nice to give it a go and especially in front of such a good crowd here in America.

Q.   What was the experience like playing in front of such a big crowd? 
RICHARD STERNE:   It was good. Obviously it's all USA, but it's still fun.   We enjoy it.   It's a good experience.   I think that we have got a good side.   We have got a lot of youngsters coming through in the next two or three or four years.
I hit a lot of good shots under pressure.   It doesn't get any tougher than playing against Tiger Woods, so to hit the shots as I good and to play as calm and relaxed as I did will help me a lot going forward.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT