THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 2, 2013
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the fact that you're playing with Bill and you didn't get a chance to do that the last time out, and how important was it for you guys this time around?   
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I mean, Bill is a great friend.   We played a lot of practice rounds together and obviously we went to Wake.   I didn't play with him but he was kind of my big brother when I got on TOUR, really wanted to help me out in whatever I needed so I've learned a lot from him, looked up to him a lot and.  
I just thought it would be a great fit.   You want to play with a guy that you kind of jive with and get along with for the most part.   Sometimes there's situations where you've got to play with somebody, depending on the team but I think we get along great as teammates.   So I'm looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Did you call him or did he call you?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I texted him first.   Just said, hey‑‑ we had talked about playing together in Australia.   I think it's one of those things where Bubba and I were going to start out and depending on how things went, Bill was kind of the next choice in Australia who I would like to play with, and Bubba and I played great so we kind of stuck together and I texted him and said, I would love to play and he agreed.   That's kind of what I told Freddie in the text, who I would like to play with‑‑ first Bill.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever sent a text to someone, I want to play and the other guy says‑‑  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I'm good?   Or no response?   (Laughter) that's why I've got to be selected in who I'm texting, texting people that I know will accept me (laughing).   
   
 Q.   Talk about your match with Hideki.   
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's going to be tough.   Adam has had a great year.   He played great.   Hideki won a few weeks ago.   So we've got our work cut out for us but honestly I knew before I looked at the pairings that who we were going to be playing was tough.   The way these things are, you get a team, with the best players in the world, they are all going to play well, especially Jordan Spieth.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel about the difference between The Ryder Cup and The Presidents Cup‑‑ you seem to do well in Presidents Cups‑‑  
WEBB SIMPSON:   The pressure that we feel as golfers is very similar.   I think with the fans and the media and how much more The Ryder Cup is talked about, that's what brings the added pressure.   But honestly when you're trying to make a putt to win a match or you're trying to hit a golf shot over water, like on 12 this week for a par 5, 11, going for it, too, the pressure is the same when you're over the ball.   Doesn't matter if it's Sony Open or the Masters.   I mean, the pressure is there.   It's just maybe slightly less.     
   
 Q.   What's your feeling about 14, whether or not‑‑ how will you decide whether or not‑‑ Fred was talking about, they were not going to tell you guys whether to go for it or not.   
WEBB SIMPSON:   Well, we talked about it out there for the entire hole.   I mean, I think there's so many different types of strategy.   I mean, depending on who is up first, where you stand in the match, I certainly think the right pins make more sense to go for it because if the pin is on the left side and you're left of the green where you are going to hit it, you don't have a chance to get it close.   
But it will be something that I like to talk about that before we get there.   So Bill and I in the morning, maybe go over it a little bit.   So, we'll see.   
   
 Q.   You got there late today, and I think Hunter‑‑  
WEBB SIMPSON:   I did, and I hit it in the front left bunker which was basically exactly where I was trying to hit it and if pin was front left or middle left, I wouldn't have been able to get it close.   Take a perfect drive essentially and you can't get to a couple of the pins, so I think certain pins, it makes more sense than others.   
Again, if you go into the hole and you're three‑up, it kind of makes sense to me to hit two irons down there so you have two birdie putts.   But I think you'll see game‑time decisions there where I might have a driver out hitting second and they both hit it in the water and I'll hit iron.   
   
 Q.   What is it about‑‑   inaudible.   
WEBB SIMPSON:   He makes me laugh.   I act like a kid, so I tell him all the time, I ask him if he wants to hear jokes and my jokes makes 12‑year‑olds laugh, so when I get a laugh out of him I know it's a good thing.   But we just‑‑ we love hanging out.   Our wives are good friends.   So it just kind of fits I think.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I knew a few guys I wanted to play with.   He was at the top of the list, and it's just‑‑ when you know a guy that well it just makes it a little easier I think to play with.   I think the good thing where golf is going, you can see is like most of the guys on this team played The Ryder Cup in Australia, and we are all similar ages for the most part, so we are getting to know each other so well.   
I think Freddie could draw us out of a hat and we'll all enjoy our partner.   
   
 Q.   Can you appreciate where Brendon‑‑  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I was extremely nervous.   That's when I realized that‑‑ or earlier in the week, I told Bubba, I liked the even holes a lot better since it was alternate‑shot, and I didn't want to hit the first tee shot on.   I think those guys are playing well.   
They will figure it out.   Took me a couple holes to get loose in Australia, but once you hit one good shot or make a putt, you kind of‑‑ you turn that nervous energy into positive energy and you just kind of feed off the crowd.   We didn't have many fans, but our fans over there were loud enough to where we're feeding off of them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT