PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  WEBB SIMPSON:   I guess that got me to 5‑under.   And then made a bomb on 6 and then made double or made another one on 6.   That was where I started thinking about records and all that.

Q.   How do you feel on the golf course when suddenly you are faced with‑‑
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's tough.   I mean, there's more of you guys walking around and cameramen, so you know you're about to maybe have a chance of doing something special.   But you try as hard as you can to have the same mindset as you did the previous 13, 14 holes and, you know, continue to execute shots that I was doing all day.

Q.   What changes in your game planwhen this course plays soft from the rain?
WEBB SIMPSON:   You are certainly more aggressive off the tee just because we're not going to get any roll.   The only thing that the rain helped today was we could fire at all the pins because the balls were stopping.   I mean, we still didn't want to short side, but there was a lot less thinking involved in your approach shots in terms of release and all that. 

Q.   Is the guy who wins this thing going to have to put up a 64 or 65 at some point?
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's hard to say.   I mean, you know, I think 1‑ or 2‑under every day is going to be right there.   You know, if they don't get any wind this afternoon, scores will still be pretty good.   I think it's drying out enough to have a lot of mud balls.   I had a couple on the last couple of holes and that makes it tough because it becomes a guessing game.   So I think we'll see a couple of those this afternoon, but it's still playing hard.

Q.   (Inaudible)? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Well, you know, it actually helped us when it was still raining because we could kind of take our time more.   I didn't feel like we were in a rush as much.   We did wait the last few holes, but I think we would have waited anyways.   For some reason it seemed to really slow up the last two or three holes.

Q.   Webb, was it any different today?   I mean, you're playing in heavier rain, but the softness of the greens, was that any different today than it was yesterday?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I mean, I think, you know with the moisture on the greens today, lower shots would skip a little more but the greens were spinning more.   So the speed of the greens actually were quicker today, which I didn't think they would be.   It took us a few holes to get used to the speed.   That's not the usual case when we get as much rain as we got. 
I think most of these guys this afternoon, it's just going to take a few holes to get used to.   You're going to see guys running putts by the first couple of holes, but they are quick. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT