BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2012
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Maybe just some opening comments.   Played with Bo Van Pelt today and both shot 8‑under. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, it was good.   Good, solid golf, no bogeys, which I'm always excited about.   Got the putter going, made a lot of putts on the back nine, and it was good to get up‑and‑down for par on the last after not making any bogeys.   I didn't want to end with a bogey, so it was a great start and in good position.

Q.   Talk about the scoring conditions obviously with lift, clean and place.   It was pretty soft, so for you guys that's‑‑
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, it's definitely scorable.   I think I would have shot about 80 if we played it down.   I've never seen that much mud on the ball.   The greens held up well, they're rolling great, and we're probably going to have to play it up again tomorrow. 

Q.   You're playing with a hometown guy.   Did you sense the energy around your group and so forth? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Absolutely.   I mean, I didn't realize he was from here until the first tee when I heard all the people erupt.   But it was fun playing with him.   I get two home events myself, and I know what it feels like to play well.   He had a great day.

Q.   Did you push each other a little bit?   Do you think that helps?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think so.   When you watch a guy who's making putts and playing well, it kind of lets you see that it's gettable out there.   I definitely think it helps.   It doesn't always help, but today it did. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your Playoffs so far?   Seems like you're gaining a little momentum after kind of a slow start. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I just‑‑ I had a rough stretch there for about six weeks, missed a couple cuts, and just wasn't playing that well.   But I knew what it was.   I knew how to fix it.   Last week was a really good week.   I just didn't really ever get anything going low.   Saturday, 66, I felt like it should have been about a 61 or 62.   So it is nice to have momentum right now, and that's when you want in the last half of the Playoffs.   Hopefully I can keep playing well this week and ride it into Atlanta.

Q.   You say you know what it was. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   You know, we've been swinging well all year.   I think I'm just hitting a little closer to the hole and making putts, and I think that's kind of the difference.   Been pretty consistent all year with ball‑striking.   I finally got the putter going, and I've got a good thought right now, and hopefully I can keep making putts.

Q.   What's your putting thought right now?
WEBB SIMPSON:   We're working on alignment right now.   My alignment we noticed was off, and when alignment is off, you kind of self‑correct.   As an athlete you kind of know where the ball should go.   Once we kind of nailed that fundamental down, balls are starting on line.

Q.   Did you nail that down this week in practice or before Saturday last week?
WEBB SIMPSON:   We've been doing work on it for about a month, but it's gotten better and better with each week.   It's kind of hard to change overnight, something that drastic, but we're just kind of chipping away at it.

Q.   How were you misaligned? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Either way.   It just depends.   I mean, last year I was lined up too far left, this year too far right.   I think it's just the way the golf game is.   You overcorrect.   It feels good to make some putts. 

Q.   This is essentially a home game for Bo.   Did you get a sense of that?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Absolutely.   He got a big eruption on the first tee, and it's cool to see.   It's cool to see him play well in front of the crowd.

Q.   Was putting the key to your round today?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yes and no.   I had a few good up‑and‑downs.   Any time you shoot a low number with no bogeys, I think you're putting well.   But I think I made three long ones today, and that was kind of‑‑ those are the days where you just‑‑ you really enjoy it because you don't expect to make a few putts and they go in. 
But overall I hit it really solid.   I think I only drove it in the rough once.   Overall it was just a good, solid day.

Q.   Are conditions about as good as you're going to get for scoring?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, it was good.   Lift, clean and place was great.   It got a little windy at the end, but overall it was great.

Q.   Did your ball pick up much mud?
WEBB SIMPSON:   More than I've ever seen.   If we didn't play lift, clean and place, I would have probably shot 80.   It would have been impossible.   Half the ball was covered on every hole.   I expect us to do it tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT