TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2012
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, thanks very much.   You may not be the leader, but in my mind that was the most impressive round of the day.   I mean you're coming off winning the U. S. Open, for crying out loud and you don't make a bogey till near the end of the round and you shoot 4‑under.   Are you as impressed with your round as I am?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I'm definitely pleased.   I knew it was going to be a tough round to come out and really focus and put last week behind me, but we got off to a good start as a group, two of us birdied one, and it was just fun playing with those guys, and we just kind of fed off each other and just played a good solid round.

Q.   I'm just curious, during the course of the round, did you ever think oh, my gosh, I'm playing here and I just won the U. S. Open?
WEBB SIMPSON:   A little bit.   But I think it helped to play with ‑‑ you know, Keegan is a major champion and Bubba winning the Masters.   It kind of made everything a little easier.   It wasn't like I was the only stand‑out guy.   So we had a good time, a lot of laughs and a lot of birdies.

Q.   How difficult was this course as compared to playing Olympic?   I mean this is a shot maker's course certainly, and it probably seemed a bit easy in comparison to Olympic.   I'm just curious how it all played out after what you went through just a few days ago. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, you know, that's kind of one of the things I talked about with my caddie before the week started is just we gotta be ready to play.   There's a lot of birdies to be made, and it's easy to go from a course like Olympic and come here and kind of shut your mind off and just hit golf shots.   But luckily the course played firm.   It was playing difficult and they had a lot of tough pins, so I think that kind of played into my advantage.

Q.   And how is your energy level?   Are you burned out at all?
WEBB SIMPSON:   No, I'm good.   I went home, got some sleep, saw my son and kind of reenergized me, and I feel good.

Q.   Thanks for your time.   Great playing.   Appreciate it. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Thanks.   Appreciate it. 

Q.   Webb, well played out there today, 4‑under par 66.   How did you feel on the golf course?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I felt great.   It was I think good for my mind to get out and get in the ropes again and start another tournament.   And in a way I had to put last week behind me and try to play as well as I could.

Q.   You had some great up‑and‑downs out there, 3, 4, and of course the one at 17. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah.   17 was big for me because I felt like I didn't miss a shot on 16 and made bogey, and 17 I didn't hit a good tee shot, but to come out of there with par was kind of what kept my round together.

Q.   How important was it to be out there with Bubba and Keegan?   You looked like you were relaxed pretty much all day. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   We were.   I mean he's my Presidents Cup partner, so we always laugh together, and Keegan and I have played a lot of golf this year.   He's a good friend, and so we were just having fun and feeding off each other, and luckily everybody played well.

Q.   Good luck tomorrow. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Thank you.

Q.   Webb, comment on the round, if you can. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I'm pleased with the start of the first round.   I played really well.   Just dropped one shot there on 16.   But I really hit a good shot there, and you know, the course, I was pleased to see that it was playing firm and fast and they had a lot of tough pins, and any time you can shoot 4‑under in a first round, I think it's a good thing and it'll put me where I need to be for tomorrow.

Q.   What was it like being in that paring today, Webb?
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was fun.   I think it took a lot of pressure off me because I'm not the only stand‑out guy in the group obviously.   Keegan winning a major and Bubba winning the Masters, so I think it did relieve a little stress, and I played with those guys so much that we had a good time.

Q.   And how about having your name called out, U. S. Open champ?
WEBB SIMPSON:   That was pretty cool on the first tee.   I never really dreamed that I would hear that, but when I heard it, I kind of smiled inside, but you know, I had to focus on the tee shot and try to get going.

Q.   Did you ever get back at Keegan's caddie?
WEBB SIMPSON:   No.   I'm still thinking.   But it's going to be a secret and surprise, so I'll figure something out.

Q.   Webb, what were maybe some of the anecdotes and stories you guys shared, some of the experiences you guys have gone through?
WEBB SIMPSON:   You know, I've already talked to Bubba a little bit about how to deal with the aftermath of winning a major.   I talked to Keegan already as well, but you know, the beauty of those guys is we're all similar age and we're all competitors and we love hanging out, but we love trying to beat each other.   So it's just a fun atmosphere to be in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT