U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2012
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   68 yesterday, 68 today.   At present a 1‑shot lead.   How nerve‑wracking is it to sit here and watch?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's pretty nerve‑wracking.   I'm glad my wife is here with me in the booth.   It was just a cool day.   I had a piece all day.   I knew it was a tough golf course.   I had to go out and do as well as I could.   I probably prayed more the last three holes than I've ever done in my life.   It helped me stay calm and get in with 2‑under.  
   
 Q.   You did it with four straight birdies.   
WEBB SIMPSON:   This is a four‑‑ and just worked out perfectly and went down to about five feet.  
   
 Q.   Made that for birdie?   Birdie on 7, pick it up at 8?   
WEBB SIMPSON:   My caddie helped me here.   He watched a lot of golf, and said most guys come up short.   So hit a hard 6‑iron and made the putt.  
   
 Q.   You make the turn, here's your second shot at 10?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   This was an accident.   We were trying to go 15 feet left of the hole.   It came out right and luckily the distance was perfect.  
   
 Q.   There's the birdie.   Now this is your third shot at 18.   In trouble prior to that?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, actually I had a good break off the tee to have a decent lie to get it up there.   I was sitting in a dead hole the size of a sprinkler head and was able to get a chip down to about 30 feet.   Got my hands shaking a little bit.   
   
 Q.   If, in fact, you wind up winning this U.S. Open at Olympic, every story somewhere is going to include the fact that you were an Arnold Palmer scholar at Wake Forest, and one of the most heart breaking defeats at his career came in '66 when he blew a big lead against Billy Casper and lost in a playoff?  
WEBB SIMPSON:   Obviously I played under his scholarship at Wake.   I read that story Monday or Tuesday and thought about it.   He's meant so much to me and Wake Forest that hopefully if I win, I can get a little back for him and make him smile.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT