U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2012
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good play. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Thanks.

Q.   Tell me a little bit about it.   2‑under is a pretty good score. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   It was a good day all around.   I made a bunch of putts early, really hit it good on the back nine.   Our first bogey on No. 9 I thought I hit a pretty flawless shot and the front of that green is just a little softer and it spun back off and I dropped a shot there. 
Overall, it was satisfying just in terms of finally kind of hitting it where we're looking.   The last couple of days or first couple of days were a little tougher, we scraped it around a little more.   But I kept the ball in front of me today and was able to make some putts.

Q.   Pretty good look on 18 to get another one.   Looked like you thought it went in. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   I thought I made that one.   Par, I told myself even before I got to, up to the putt, pars are always good here.   Can't be disappointed if you don't make it. 
Overall, it was a great day. 

Q.   Couple of running starts and then you dropped back.   Do you feel like it's getting close?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I do.   The course doesn't let you leave any room for error.   I think the only difference, the real difference today compared to the first couple days was I hit it a little better and I made my mistakes in the right places.   Hopefully tomorrow I can get off to another good start and make a little run. 

Q.   You seem pretty relaxed out there, like you were having fun, which isn't a word you necessarily associate with the U.S. Open. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, any time you're playing good you feel comfortable and in control of your ball it's going to be a little more at ease out there.   When you're not hitting it good, when you're kind of having a question of where it's going to go at a U.S. Open it's going to be a tough day.
But fortunately today I had a good feel for what I was doing and I really didn't hit any shots that really cost me. 

Q.   Playing with Robert, you guys trading restaurant suggestions or anything like that?
WEBB SIMPSON:   A little bit.   We're staying at the same hotel this week.   I don't see him a whole lot in Charlotte, but he's a good guy and he played pretty well too.   So we had a good time together. 

Q.   When you look to tomorrow, what's your goal, what is your thought?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I'll come up with a game plan tonight a little more after I see the scores, see what the guys are doing, and if they make a run and I'm five back the game plan the might change a little.   But if I'm only a couple back going into tomorrow we'll come out and try to do the same thing.   And the USGA's done a fabulous job of setting up the golf course.   Plenty of birdie opportunities but some holes are just so hard.   I think you'll see more of that tomorrow. 

Q.   You want to move up the leaderboard, but you always, in a U.S. Open, have to temper the way you play.   In developing your strategy for tonight, how do you balance the two?
WEBB SIMPSON:   It's a good balance.   There's some holes that ‑‑ a hole like 7 that you can really attack, but if you're not careful on 7, like that pin today in the middle left, if you miss it left you can't make birdie. 
So every hole, every birdie hole has a certain characteristic to making a bogey possible, which is the genius of the U.S. Open.   So I think that you kind of pick apart the golf course and you have some holes where you try to make par and other holes you get a little more aggressive and take the risk of trying to make a birdie.

Q.   Did you do that today to any extent and were you successful with that?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I did.   A day like today, couple bad bounces, but a couple bounces that were fortunately my way.   And at a U.S. Open, to shoot under par, you have to have things go your way.   And that's what happened today and I made the par putts and made a couple birdie putts, which I feel like I shot 10‑under today and I shot 2.   So just a good feeling to shoot under par in the U.S. Open. 

Q.   The greens, how are the greens today compared to the last two?
WEBB SIMPSON:   A little more firm, a little quicker.   The back nine they got brown.   So I think the leaders are going to have a tough time on the back nine just with how firm it is.   You're starting to see footprints, so I'm sure I'll see a little of that tomorrow.

Q.   Do you expect tomorrow for them to be worse or faster than today?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I don't think they will be that much different than what you see today.   I think the USGA wants to keep it around par.   If it gets anymore firm I think it could get a little silly.   But they have done a perfect job up until now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT