WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2012
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk a little bit about the hustle there to try to get it in.   Did it remind you of when you were a kid trying to get holes in before dark?
WEBB SIMPSON:   That was probably the darkest I've ever played.   I couldn't really see anything, but I looked at Jarrod on the last hole, he wanted to finish and Keegan wanted to finish, and went ahead and did it, and glad we're done now.

Q.   Saves you some trouble, you can sleep in now on Saturday, right?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, I mean, a little bit.   I think tee times are still a little bit earlier, but it's definitely going to get a couple more hours.

Q.   How was the game today other than playing through the dark? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   I struggled a bit today.   I had a couple chip‑ins, which was nice, but hit one out of bounds and just never really got it going, and unfortunately hit it in the water on 15, but other than that it was a good day to struggle and shoot 2‑under.

Q.   When you see a player like Levin shoot astoundingly like he did today and you see the score, do you say in the back of your mind, I've got to catch this guy?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, when I saw he was at 14‑under when I was on the third green, I was pretty blown away.   But I think the conditions have been so good the last two days that I knew somebody was going to go shoot a couple good numbers.   Maybe not that low, but yeah, tomorrow and Sunday we're going to have to go get him and see how many birdies we can make. 

Q.   Can you talk about the greens, how they played today?   I know there was another day of frost delays. 
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, the greens were good.   I don't think they were quite as firm as yesterday, but they were rolling smooth.   Late in the day they got a little bumpy because the grass was growing a little stronger, but they're holding up nice and I think they'll be great for the weekend.

Q.   Do you like where you're positioned right now? 
WEBB SIMPSON:   I do.   I don't even know what position I'm in, but 8‑under through two rounds, I'm happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT