CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 23, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You did what you wanted to do but didn't finish quire as you were hoping for.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it was a good day. You know, I got off to a slow start, but made a nice run there in the middle. Made four birdies in a row and really had some good chances there on the back, but couldn't quite get the putts to drop.   
 When you're playing against the best player in the world who's making -- I think he made six birdies in row -- it's tough to compete against.  
  
  Q. Talk about what was that like watching Luke go into what can only be called the zone?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Well, it's tough emotionally because you go from being in the driver's seat to head-to-head with him, and then you're trailing.   
 So I wasn't really protecting the lead I had or my position because I was still trailing the leaders I think by a couple. So I was still trying to make birdies.   
 But when a guy is doing that, it's really tough to stay with 'em.  
  
  Q. Even though you're not going to win the Money List title this year, if in January at the Sony Open I would have said, Webb, this is what your year is a going to be. Not bad.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, not bad at all. I would have taken it. It's been a great year. I've learned so much, and can't wait for a little rest and get back at it next year.  
 Didn't play as good as I wanted on the (indiscernible) holes, but, you know, we were right there. We gave ourselves a chance. The fact is, playing against the best player in the world, he's going to do something great like that most of the time, and he did and made six birdies in a row. Tough to compete against.   
  
  Q. Probably have a ballot waiting at home when you finally get home. Whose name are you going to write on it?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: You know, I don't know yet. We'll see. I think I've played great; Luke's played great; couple other guys have played well.   
 Still probably up in the air a little bit, but I'm sure I'll vote for myself.  
  
  Q. It was one of the most exciting final rounds we've seen in a long time. Thanks.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, appreciate it a lot.   
  
  Q. What was the turning point out there?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: The turning point was probably 13 when I was seven feet; he was five feet. I missed; he made.   
 I hit a great putt there and thought I made it, and then at that point he just kept playing great golf. Made a nice putt on 14 and 15.   
 You know, honestly, all week I was just struggling from the middle of the fairway getting the ball close to the hole. It's hard to win golf tournament tournaments when you're doing that.  
  
  Q. It was topsy-turvy, I mean you guys going back and forth for four days. Talk about playing with Luke.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it was fun. You know, we both kind of had our moments of playing great golf this week. He did his at the end I think is when it counts. We had a blast out there. Kind of a tiring week playing together every day and thinking about all that's going on.  
 I'm glad it's over. He played great. My hat's off to him. Hopefully he'll get the W?  
  
  Q. (Recording interruption: announcement.)  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I mean, those were the holes you kind of want to do it on. But the putts he made on 14 and 15 are huge. (Recording interruption: announcement.)   
  
  Q. You came out here to win the Money List. How disappointed are you?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: I mean, to be honest, it's not that disappointing. When you got a guy that's the best player in the world and he makes six birdies on the back nine on Sunday is to win the golf tournament -- and he's probably going to win -- well, he's right there -- you know, I can't be that disappointed.   
 I gave myself a chance to win. We were head-to-head most of the tournament. I'm going to look back, I said at the beginning of this week, and say I had a great year and try to go get it next year.  
  
  Q. At least you had the opportunity in the last tournament. That's all you can ask, isn't it?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, absolutely. I think it was a cool thing for the Fall Series and for Children's Miracle Network. There is so much going on with people trying to keep their cards, so to add a little bit more drama to the final event was fun.  
  
  Q. Two top players on the Money List and the two most consistent players throughout the year, having the same trainer, does that mean anything? What is there in that commonality between those two?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I mean, I think we got guys who do such great work. We got a team that covers every angle from the gym to stretching to massage therapy. So I think there is something to it. I think a few other guys on the team, Sabbatini had a win earlier this year and a few other guys that played well. So they got a good bunch guys, I would say.  
  
  Q. Is conditioning important for consistency throughout the year?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I think so when you're playing as much as we are. I mean, Luke is going to go over and play in a few different countries. You've got to be in pretty good shape. If the physical breaks down then the mental will break down as well.  
  
  Q. What do you think this does on the Player of the Year? Settle does it? Confuse it?   
 WEBB SIMPSON: I mean, it's tough. You know, he's played great all year. I think on paper our years have been pretty similar. He's maybe had a couple more Top 10s, and now he's got a couple wins if he wins today.  
 It's going to be interesting to see what happens. It really will. I didn't think it was going to come down this though week; maybe it will. We'll see.  
  
  Q. Where does your vote go?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: If I'm voting I'll vote for myself obviously. I don't know. We'll see.  
  
  Q. The intention was always to play these final two?   
 WEBB SIMPSON: I was pretty much going to play as long as he was going to play. I knew I needed to.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT