CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 22, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First part of your round a little struggle there. Then you kind of picked it up on the back. Just kind of talk about that a little bit.  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. It was a slow start. We got off to a nice start on the first three holes, but then made a 6 on the par-54. Actually hit a pretty good second shot and it went over, and that was tough bogey to make there. But we just hung in there and played a nice back side and somewhat got back in the tournament.  
  
  Q. Talk about this little battle now. Third day in a row you're getting paired with Luke. Has it been fun these past three days?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. It's been a good time. You know, we're both trying to do the same thing, I think, win the golf tournament. You know, it's been good to play with him. It's always good to play with your best friend in the world, and we might be playing together again tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Is that something that you look forward to, maybe keep moving up in the rankings and getting to that spot?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, absolutely. That's the goal. I don't like to set any results-oriented goals, so I just try to keep improving and keep getting better, and you know, we've kind of done that this year and we just want to keep up the pace.  
  
  Q. Are you looking forward to the off season?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. I can't wait.  
  
  Q. Kind of a slow start, even though you birdied the first hole. Tough front nine, but came back on the Back 9.  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. It was good to finish with 4-under on the back. I knew we were playing well. We just made a couple of mistakes we hadn't made really this week at all, and it cost me a couple of shots, but other than that, it was a pretty good day.  
  
  Q. Is there really a part of this golf course you feel you need to score on?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Not really. I mean you got a couple birdie holes starting out, and then a couple birdie holes in the middle of the round with 10 and 11; and you got a couple really kind of the middle of the Back 9. But coming in is tough. We had a good wind for us today, but it'll be a good tough finish for the guys tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You played with Luke three straight days. How has it been?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: It's been good. It's been like any other tournament. We're both trying to play our best and see if we can win the golf tournament.   
 There's been a little added pressure, but I think we've both handled it okay.  
  
  Q. It kind of looks like you're struggling with your swing a little bit out there. Is that the case?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: No. I hit only a couple loose shots. You know, 4 we played pretty flawlessly and made 6. Just a mistake with the putter there.   
 And then the only really bad shot of the day was probably No. 6, the par-3 where we made bogey. But other than that I swung it well on the Back 9 and made some good putts and got myself somewhat back in the golf tournament.  
  
  Q. Seemed like you enjoyed the first three days.  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. I don't really care, to be honest. He's a good player, so it's always good to play with good players, but I don't really get caught up in it too much.  
  
  Q. What is it about your play on the Back 9? You really seemed to make a move there.  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. We made a pretty easy birdie on 10 and 11 made a 10-footer and then made a couple 20-footers on 14 and 15. So that really gave me some confidence going into tomorrow. I'm looking for a low round and hopefully I got one more in me.  
  
  Q. Is there a little bit of an emotional swing or whatever after the front nine and then making that surge on the back?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. I mean I'm a little more confident than I was two hours ago, but you know, I knew the game was right there. Just a matter of making putts when I needed to, and finally got the putter going, so tomorrow should be a good day.  
  
  Q. The reason I asked about 14, and I'm sorry, I hate to eavesdrop, but I heard you and Paul talking about, and I think your line was that's never happened to me so much in my life. I thought you were talking about your swing. That wasn't the case?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: No. Our wedge control has been so bad this week. We've hit 90 percent of them on line, and most of them have been short, some of them long; and I can't really figure that out.   
  
  Q. Okay. That's all. Appreciate it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT