TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Even par today, nice finish there. Just comment on your round if you can.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it was kind of a lot like yesterday. We got off to a rough start but hung in there. I think we figured out something a little bit with the golf swing, made a bunch of good swings coming in.   
 You know, 17, we hit a flawless second shot that went over the green. Kind of summed up our week, but it was nice to finish with a 2 at 18.   
  
  Q. How hard is it to keep your mind off all the --  
 WEBB SIMPSON: You know, honestly, it's been a little easier than I thought it would. You know, it's been in the back of my head all week, but like Jimmy said down there, there's so much that can happen with so many guys and so many variables that it's not like if I shoot 70 tomorrow then I win. There's so much going on that I think it actually helps me -- we've done a good job focusing on the golf this week.  
  
  Q. Do you have a number in mind that you need to shoot tomorrow to win the FedExCup?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: No, like I said, it depends on so many other things and so many other people that we're going to go out there tomorrow and try to hit the first tee shot in the fairway and play one shot at a time and try to move up in top 10 or top 5 for the tournament.  
  
  Q. What tweaks were you making out there that you said kind of got you going again?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: My backswing path was a little outside, so we just tried to go more around my body, and the results were better. Still not great, but enough, I think, to get me through tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised at all the way this is playing out? I mean, it's kind of wide open all of a sudden.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I mean, I thought going into the week that us who were in the top 5 were going to play a little better. But I guess that's why it's the Playoffs; even the last tournament so many guys can have a chance to win. I think it's fun and exciting.   
  
  Q. Will you study the scenarios tonight?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: No, I won't look at them.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT