BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. We've been interviewing you a lot lately. How hard is this to take?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: It's tough. I mean, I know I'm playing well right now and riding a lot of confidence, but every player in the game is going through ups and downs. You know, I was talking to Ernie Els yesterday, and he said, when you're up, just keep it going and keep the hammer down, so that's what I'm trying to do.  
  
  Q. You have a quick turnaround and are out here again early Saturday morning. Does that bother you at all?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Not really. I'll just go get stretched out now and get a good night's sleep. With a seven-month-old baby I'm used to being up early in the morning.   
  
  Q. One bogey in the course of 36 holes.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it was good. Another good day today. I didn't quite make as many putts as I did yesterday, but finished solidly, and I figured out something coming in the last few holes, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Something with ball-striking or something with putting?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: With ball-striking. My rhythm was a little off today, a little quick off the ball. My caddie convinced me to slow it down and I did so and saw some pretty good shots coming off.  
  
  Q. You actually hit 15 greens in the second round, 14 greens in the first. But you had more makeable birdie putts in that opening round.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: We did. One thing we're doing really well is missing on the right side of the hole. Like on 18 we're missing where I can really get up-and-down. That's kind of a key around here with a long golf course, so I'm going to try to keep doing that tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Speed of the greens different today?   
 WEBB SIMPSON: I thought they were a little quicker starting out, but I think overall they were about the same.  
  
  Q. We have a quick turnaround, early tee times for Saturday morning. You have a seven-month-old baby. Do you get enough sleep in the hotel room?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, he sleeps great. He sleeps 7:00 to 7:00, so he gets his 12 hours, and my wife and I usually go to bed pretty early after him. I'm getting plenty of sleep.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT