DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about the eagle on 7?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, 7, we hit a drive, kind of pushed it, got a good break to get it back in the fairway, then hit a hybrid, cut it around the tree to about 30 feet and it was a great putt. I can't really say it was a turning point because it kind of just kept the momentum going. It was pretty exciting to do, and then Luke topped me, and we were having some fun there.  
  
  Q. You went low on the front nine. Did you have a number in mind that you needed to post today?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Not really. I mean, I knew before the day started that conditions were going to be tough, so I knew if I shot anywhere from 4- to 6-under I'd kind of be right there, but it looks like Chez Reavie is playing awesome on the back.  
  
  Q. The back nine is playing a lot harder than the front, and yet Chez is playing it quite well. What's going on there?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Well, I mean, if you put yourself in the fairway, you can have some good chances. The greens are so pure here that if you give yourself good looks, you'll probably make some of them. It's just tricky out there. I hit a shot on 16 that I couldn't believe it came up short, and Luke hit a beautiful shot and it went over the green. And then 17 I thought I flagged it, and it spun off the green. It was tricky for sure. Props to Chez.  
  
  Q. Birdie on 18, going into that are you thinking I have to birdie this hole to have a shot at winning the tournament?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: No, because I didn't know he birdied 16, I think. So I figured -- my caddie looked at me on 16 green, and he goes, "We probably need to birdie the last two." He was just saying that, I think, to keep me aggressive. But it looks like 17 is going to be a big hole now.  
  
  Q. You were saying last year you didn't even have your card last year at this time. Now you're probably the hottest golfer on TOUR. How big a difference is that?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: It's a big difference. I've worked on a lot of things this year and had -- my caddie has helped me a ton, my coach, my wife has helped me a ton. I've got a great team around me. I'm pretty lucky. Things are going in the right direction, the direction that we want. We're going to keep doing the same thing.  
  
  Q. How comfortable are you in the Playoffs right now?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: It's great to be in good position going into Chicago and then Atlanta. The whole goal, I think, is to put ourselves in the top 5 going into Atlanta because if you win there, you win the whole thing. I'm excited to be where I am, and I just want to keep getting closer to that No. 1 spot.  
  
  Q. The par on 14, is that the biggest shot of the day?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Probably the par on 15 because I hit such a bad second shot, so to get that ball up-and-down was pretty awesome.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT