WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Very nice round here today. Talk about the second round.
 WEBB SIMPSON: It was good, man. Little more solid than yesterday. No bogies is always nice out here and I was able to keep the ball in play and make some putts when I needed to.

 Q. Got it going there on your back-9. Talk about the run you made there.
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. I hit it close on 4, made birdie and made another eagle on 5 like yesterday and then just played solid coming in. I wish I could have gotten one coming in but it was a good way to end the round.

 Q. One part of your game that is better than any of the other parts?
 WEBB SIMPSON: No, not necessarily. I think I just putted well. When I had long putts I lagged it up there close. When I was inside ten feet I was able to convert. All around pretty solid.

 Q. You're in good position going into the weekend and a Wake Forest grad. What would it mean to win this championship?
 WEBB SIMPSON: It would be awesome. I never won out here obviously and get my first win in front of the home crowd would be truly awesome. At this point tomorrow is my only concern and I just have to go out and hit the first tee shot.

 Q. Wednesday you talked about putting together four solid rounds. You have two good round. How is your confidence?
 WEBB SIMPSON: It's great. I had a bad Saturday last year. I learned a lot. So I'm looking forward to being close to the lead going into the third round. Hopefully it will help and hopefully I can put another low number out there.

 Q. What did you learn last time?
 WEBB SIMPSON: I just got a little -- I was thinking about my position and where I was a little too much instead of just playing the golf course and, you know, I ended up shooting 3-under on the back I think to shoot 1-over. Having already been through that it will help me to stay a little more calm and stick to what I know how to do. 

 Q. Thoughts about the weekend now, chance to move up in the FedExCup point standings, lot of good things can happen.
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. I'm looking forward to the challenge of the weekend. You know, I want to get back in that position where I have an opportunity to win and hopefully I can give myself a good solid round tomorrow and have a chance on Sunday.

 Q. Good stuff again today. Good luck on the weekend.
 WEBB SIMPSON: I appreciate it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT