THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 29, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice little run at the end. You get a tie for the lead. You've got to be used to being at the top of the leaderboard; you've come so close to winning?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, you know, it's all a good feeling knowing I have a chance to win going into the weekend. But it was just another couple of solid rounds. And this afternoon was trickier with the wind. But I was able to get a couple of coming in, which is always nice.  
  
  Q. I know to be successful you can't think big picture. You've got to think: Stay in the moment, that kind of thing. But big picture victory. And also I imagine in the back of your mind: President's Cup. You're I think 15th in points, 7th. Must be something you'd like to be a part of.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it would be great. I got to play with Steve Streeter at the British a couple of rounds. So I was picking his brain a lot about the President's Cup and Ryder Cup teams. And I've been definitely thinking about it a lot, definitely a goal of mine. Hopefully I can inch my way on the team.  
  
  Q. I've noticed you in the gym this week standing on a ball and balancing. It's one of the most impressive things I'm seeing. How do you do it and why do you do it?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: The why, I'm not sure. I don't think I can answer. The guys that help me do it, I just do what I'm told. But I'm getting stronger and hitting the ball a little further. So if it's working, I'm going to keep it up.   
 Playing in the final group or one of the last groups a few times. If it remains that way, I'm looking forward to it. I'm halfway home. I have two rounds to go. And kind of the tournament begins tomorrow on Sunday. So a lot of work. But pleased through 36 holes.  
  
  Q. Being a Triangle guy, you know the humidity. This is a little bit different for us here, but maybe not you.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I feel right home. It's been upper 90s back in Charlotte probably the last three weeks. So it's a little hot. But it makes the ball go further, and you just gotta deal with it. I think it's going to cool off a little for us this weekend.  
  
  Q. 36 holes, how do you assess the Greenbrier course so far?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: It's perfect. It's awesome. They did a great job. I love the changes. And I think they've got to be happy. I think 7-under last year going into the weekend was probably in 20th. So being in the lead or close to the lead, I think they're happy. And it's about what they wanted out of it.  
  
  Q. Did you hear any fans from back home or familiar colors out there today?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. I got my brother and his family here and a couple other friends here. So a lot of "go Webbs" which is nice. So my wife and baby are at home. So I play well and I feel calm. I told my wife today I'm going to go out and be in the lead, so you've got to come for the weekend.  
  
  Q. What did hit on the 18th? They moved the tee up today.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Hit a sand wedge.  
  
  Q. Go over some of the better shots in your round.   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Starting out I didn't really hit many good shots. But I was kind of keeping the ball in front of me. And then I started kind of dialing it in a little more on the back. I hit it close on 10 from 85 yards. Hit it to six feet. 12, the par 5, I hit a great chip from over the green. Made birdie there. And 14 hit three nice shots for birdie. And 18 was icing on a cake on a day that could go either way, you know? So I wish I had birdied 17 with the driver I hit but to birdie 18 is always great.  
  
  Q. How badly do you want to play at the Bridgestone next week?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Well, I want to play very badly, but if I don't get in, then it's a win as well, because I get to go home to my wife and baby. And we've got a lot of golf coming up. So I look at it as a win-win.  
  
  Q. How old is your baby?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Five and a half months.  
  
  Q. On the other hand, you knocked out somebody who was trying for a top 52, or he knocked himself out, whichever way you look at it?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: The world golf ranking system is so complex. And it's hard to figure out. So a lot of people are asking me what do I think I need to finish to get in. I say honestly I have no clue. So unfortunately for Ryan he's not going to play the weekend. But a couple of guys missed the cut at the British and moved up, so you kind of never know.   
   
    
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT