TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'll go ahead and get started. I'd like to welcome Webb Simpson. Got to 9-under today. If you want to talk about your long day. I think you played 36 today. And then we'll take a few questions.
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. I'm pretty excited to get in the clubhouse and finish my golf today. I knew it would be big if I could play a full 36 and get a good night's sleep tonight. So I'm happy about that. 
 My game kind of got better as the day progressed and was able to finish off my second round with no bogeys, which I'm always happy about, and feel good going into the weekend.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. They were nice and soft and the fairways were soft. It was a little misty, and the air was heavy this morning, so the ball wasn't going that far, but besides that the scoring conditions were pretty ideal. 
 The TOUR did a great job in setting up the pins. They were a little more tucked than we're used to, a little towards the ridges and the greens, but it worked out perfectly because if they hadn't done that, scores would be a little bit lower.

 Q. Can you just talk about the momentum you get when you played a good first round and have to go right back out there?
 WEBB SIMPSON: It's great. River Highlands is one of those golf courses where if you get it going, you can really get it going. There's five or six birdie opportunities on each side, so when you're playing this much golf in one day, it's always good. Your run can kind of come at any time. 
 That's why you gotta stay more patient on a golf course like this than a U.S. Open because you just gotta let the runs and let the birdies come to you instead of trying to force it. So absolutely. You know, you get three or four birdies going in a row, no problem. 

 Q. The greens weren't mowed this morning or this afternoon because of the weather. How do you adjust to speeds that are much slower or much less than you usually see? I don't want to use the word slow. 
 WEBB SIMPSON: You know, for a little while in the morning you just gotta tell yourself on the first few putts you just gotta hit it a little harder than you used to. And then you know, it's like anything else. We just kind of adapt to it and you get used to it the rest of the day. 
 And you might want to watch other guys putt in your group a little more just to see how hard they hit and see how far the ball rolls out. But they were pretty consistent all day. I only had one putt that really surprised me that was a lot quicker than I thought. 

 Q. What hole was that?
 WEBB SIMPSON: That was on 11. I had like a 40-footer, knocked it about seven feet by.

 Q. What did you do yesterday?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Sat out here for a lot of it, and then we went back to the room and started playing "Words With Friends" on my iPhone with my caddie, who was five feet next to me.

 Q. What?
 WEBB SIMPSON: "Words With Friends." It's like Scrabble on the phone. 

 Q. The conditions the way they are, whether your round finishes today, tomorrow, whatever, will you be very surprised if somebody's not at double digits, if not more people, by the end of the second round?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. I think the weather is going to be really nice tomorrow morning for these guys to finish out their round. But yeah, I expect a few guys will get double digits. I was a little surprised nobody did in our wave, to be honest, but the course is gettable, and I think the scores will kind of keep going lower on the weekend. 

 Q. How have you been playing overall this year? Obviously you had a couple heartbreaks, couple close calls. Are you happy with -- do you see your game moving in a positive direction?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah. Absolutely. That's kind of the whole idea out here is that you're getting better, and I feel like I'm getting better. 
 And you know, I've had, you know, my best year obviously so far as a pro, and I've still got a few things I want to do this year and accomplish. So overall I've been really pleased. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 WEBB SIMPSON: Well, the only goals I ever set is that I want to just keep getting better. We don't set goals in terms of results like winning or Top 10s. My caddie and I like to talk about we want to get in contention a certain number of times. So for the rest of the year, you know, I want to play a couple more majors if I can. 
 I'm in the PGA. I'm not in the British right now. But playing the U.S. Open was so fun. It was my first major, and just the experience in these tournaments is only going to help me for the future. So for the rest of the year I just want to keep getting better and hopefully keep playing solid golf.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Thanks a lot, Webb. Good luck tomorrow. 
 WEBB SIMPSON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT