U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   WEBB SIMPSON: That was nice. 

 Q. Have you ever had anything like that?
 WEBB SIMPSON: No, I've never -- no, I've never had a ball end up in somebody's lap. It reminded me of Happy Gilmore. It ended up being a good break, just to the right of the trees. So the rough there wasn't high, it was laid down, so it was a pretty good break.

 Q. You ended up taking par?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah.

 Q. What happened on 13?
 WEBB SIMPSON: I addressed the ball and the ball moved about a half inch, quarter inch. I think we've been through this too many times, hadn't we? But it was kind of the same deal as New Orleans. It was unfortunate, but I think it really made me committed to try to finish strong and made a couple of good birdies coming in.

 Q. Was that the third time?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Third time as a pro. It happened once at NCAAs.

 Q. The way you started I guess the first ball went to the water, to be where you are now, how do you feel about it?
 WEBB SIMPSON: I feel good. Bogeyed my first three holes this week, and I really struggled Thursday and Friday. And like I said, I've had a tough time kind of getting going this year in tournaments. I knew if we made the cut, we could make a pretty good run this weekend if I figured something out with my swing. I putted well Thursday and Friday, which helped me make the cut. But today I started making better shots, more fairways. When you give yourself 10 or 11 times in the fairway and greens are soft you're going to have plenty of birdie opportunities, so that's what I did today and it worked.

 Q. Were you nervous, this being your first Open?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yes, I was nervous. A little bit more nervous than I ought to be. I heard major champions this week say the pressure is more in a Major, which is refreshing because I was wondering if it was just me. It was good to get that out of my system. It's all about experience out here. I think the next major will be that much better, and I won't be that nervous.

 Q. Talk about your start today. Is part of you a little surprised this is a U.S. Open and it was supposed to be difficult?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I talked to Mike Davis this morning, and the only thing going on right now -- they wish wasn't happening is the amount of rain they're getting, the golf course is soft. The greens are great, they're quick. But I had a couple of good lies today in the rough that I probably didn't deserve. But they're doing a good job. I think the pins are tough today in a way where you can short side yourself five or six, seven times and have no chance to get up and down.
 I think you'll see some pretty good scores like mine, and also some pretty high scores. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I think it's just one of those golf courses, unlike Winged Foot, Oakmont or Bethpage, that if you hit good tee shots and give yourself chances in the fairway, you're going to have a few wedges in. And the greens are so big and undulating that you can get it in the right tier, the right quadrant, and get close to the hole. 
 The others you're hitting more 4 or 5-irons, so I think that's why you're seeing good scores.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 WEBB SIMPSON: One thing I've learned being in contention a couple of times, experience just is everything. And I feel a little more comfortable every time I get in contention or every time I'm trying to make a birdie to make a cut. I think Coach Haas told me at Wake Forest, the only important thing is the golfers, that you're always getting better. Because last year I thought I was a better player and I wasn't. The results weren't showing it at all. But I kept thinking that and kept growing, so I think this year has been good to see that come to fruition.

 Q. How close do you feel you are to breaking through?
 WEBB SIMPSON: I feel great. I feel like every aspect of my game is getting better. My caddie has helped me a lot this year. The important thing is we're going the right direction. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT