WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2011
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Guys who played in the morning yesterday said the first seven holes it was cold and it played really long. How did it play in the early morning today?
 WEBB SIMPSON: It wasn't as cold this morning. The ball was still going a little shorter, but it wasn't too bad. I think yesterday morning was a slight bit colder.

 Q. People always wonder how you're going to handle adversity. The playoff loss last week, here you are again. Did that bother you at all?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I like to take the positives from any event, good or bad. That's what I did, and the good thing about the PGA TOUR is I show up here and it's a brand new tournament. That's kind of my approach this week. It's a bonus to be in my hometown and around friends and family. Last week is last week and this week is this week. 

 Q. Is this a continuation of your excellent play last week?
 WEBB SIMPSON: I think so. We're giving ourselves plenty of birdie opportunities yesterday and today, and I'm getting it up-and-down when I need to. No bogeys today on the card was a good day. Any day with no bogeys is a good day. Yeah, I'm just carrying my good play from last week into this week and I'm still confident. It's fun to be here and playing in Charlotte.

 Q. This is a home game for you. Is that pressure or is that a good thing?
 WEBB SIMPSON: I think it can be both. I think when you're playing well it's a good thing, and obviously if you're not playing well it's tough to not play good in front of the home crowd. People this week have been great, congratulating me on last week, and they've been rooting me on this week. 

 Q. Here in Charlotte, you just move here and now you're in contention at the hometown tournament. Good feeling?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it is. I haven't played well here the last couple years, so to get a couple good rounds under my belt is a good feeling. Today is the first round I think I've shot below 70 in six tries, so I'm pleased with where I'm at going into the weekend, and looks like I'm going to have a good chance to win.

 Q. A lot of times when you have an emotional week and you get so close and you have what happened, it takes some time to get over that. How did you bounce back so quickly?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Well, I think one good thing about the PGA TOUR is every week is a new week. I knew that this week would be brand new; I'd face new challenges and a new golf course. I put it behind me pretty quickly. As soon as I showed up here it was time to focus on this week.

 Q. Is there a difference between today and yesterday?
 WEBB SIMPSON: It was actually a pretty similar round. I just got it up-and-down a little better today. I had three bogeys yesterday and no bogeys today, so that was kind of the only difference. 

 Q. You're obviously putting yourself in good position for the weekend. 
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, that's all you can do out here on the TOUR is give yourself a chance to win. I'm in a good position for tomorrow and hopefully I can put together another good round tomorrow so I can be right there Sunday.

 Q. Were you concerned when the rain came that it would slow your momentum?
 WEBB SIMPSON: Not really because I had only birdied 3, and I hit a good shot there on 5, but I knew it was going to be short and I knew I'd get right back out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT