THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2010
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Webb, to start, first of all, well done. 6-under round of golf today. Your thoughts?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Thanks. It was tough starting out on 10, having 10 and 11 to play. Bogeyed 10 and made a good par on 7 and 11. Struggling with my swing a little bit in the middle of the round. Found my form a little on the front nine and was able to make a bunch of birdies coming in.  
  
  Q. You were able to hang it together. You mentioned you started with a bogey out of the 10th hole. To stay in there, grind it out and come back with this kind of score, talk to us about your mental process through all that?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it was tough at first not to try to press and make birdies, but you can't do that out here. These holes are long and demanding. So what I was thinking, I just had to get the ball in the fairway, hit the next shot. I knew I'd have some birdie opportunities on the front. I just had to stay patient, keep it one shot at a time.  
  
  Q. Can you give us some insight into how you think the course will b playing as the day progresses through the afternoon tee times?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: The fairways are still soft. I think the will remain somewhat soft for the rest of the day, but the greens, we were noticing, were firming up a little. I think it will be tough, but probably still see a couple good scores.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your season so far? I know you had a good finish last week. It was your top 10. Did you find something?   
 WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I kind of did some reassessment after Turning Stone and made some new goals for the rest of the year. And my coach and I, my dad and I, and my wife and I, we all worked really hard on my swing and kind of my mental process. So it was great last week to have some great results that quickly. But I feel confident for the rest of the year that my form can keep going, get even better.  
  
  Q. Was there one thing that you felt like was holding you back?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: I don't think any one thing in particular. You know, looking at my stats online, every area of my game was barely getting better. So there wasn't one particular area, it was just kind of all as a whole.   
 And confidence is everything out here. Once you get a little bit going, you know, just leads to more good golf.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the birdie stretch you had?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: Started with a nice 15-footer on 4 for birdie.   
 5, I hit it in there ten feet, made a good putt there from the fringe.  
 6, made a good 15-footer for birdie.  
 7, hit it in there about seven feet.   
 Good chances, good looks at it and the ball started rolling in.  
  
  Q. Talk about starting on 10. I know it's a little strange starting on a par 3 sometimes, bogeyed it today, but is it weird to go out there and immediately face a par 3?   
 WEBB SIMPSON: It's not too bad. Probably the toughest hole out there today, especially starting out. I had a good shot in there and 70-feet short. So it was a challenge at first, but you just have to deal with it and get through it.  
  
  Q. You said you made some goals. What are the goals now for FedExCup, end of the season, what were some of the those goals?  
 WEBB SIMPSON: We didn't necessarily put a premium on winning. We just want to give ourselves a chance to be there at the end of the year. So I'm focused on that, and trying to take it one day at a time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT