U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2006
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CRAIG SMITH:  Webb, I know you're disappointed.  You rallied in some of the other ones, you just didn't rallied enough today.
WEBB SIMPSON:  You know, my putting, it kind of let me down today.  The greens were a lot different yesterday.  They were a bit more firm and faster.  We were just under reading them all day and I never could really make a putt.
Q.  Which is the one that hurt you the most, he gave you a shot after he gave a hole back on 16.  I was thinking maybe your approach shot here to 18 was disappointing to you.
WEBB SIMPSON:  Yeah, you know, I kind of caught a bad break with the ball not coming all the way back down to the flat of the bunker.  I made okay contact with it, but then that shot plugged in the bunker.  I had to swing really hard.  Certainly didn't turn out the way I thought it would.
Q.  You had a tough opponent, just wonder how disappointed you are.
WEBB SIMPSON:  Yeah, I mean, I knew he was a great player.  I'm pretty sure he's on the Walker Cup team, and a lot of experience in match play there.  But, you know, he played great.  He hit it in the fairway like he needed to do and he made the key putts that I probably didn't.  So, you know, I'm disappointed, but what can you do.
Q.  It's a long time ago, but those bogeys early?
WEBB SIMPSON:  Yeah, the bogey on one shouldn't have happened.  I was in the middle of the fairway.

The next bogey came at 6, and then 9 I missed about a 3 footer.  Yeah, the bogeys on front hurt a lot.
Q.  As painful as it might be, the length of some of those putts that you missed, you missed the one at No. 8, can you give me the length on those?
WEBB SIMPSON:  8 was probably eight feet.  Actually 8 was a good putt.  My dad and I both read right edge.  It just kind of lost speed there at the end .

9, I just pulled it.  9 was probably three feet.

And 12 was about eight feet, but 12 didn't matter.  He made bogey.
Q.  Can you take any consolation out of being one of the last four standing after 7,000 people entered, 312 are playing, 64 make match play?
WEBB SIMPSON:  Yeah, definitely.  My sister asked me last night at dinner if I would have taken the semifinals before the tournament.  I told her no, because I eventually want to be the champion, of course.

But all in all, I'm happy with the way I finished, even though five minutes after I lost, it's kind of tough to say that, but it's been a great week.
Q.  And you'll give it one more shot?
WEBB SIMPSON:  Yeah, for sure.
Q.  What do you think you learned about yourself this week, especially in match play?
WEBB SIMPSON:  I would say more than anything, I realize that I'm one of the best players out here, which you know, just gives me confidence that I can play with any of these guys.  Every time I play in a tournament, whether I play great or not, I realize what I need to work onto get better.  So just little things I saw out there I'll work on for the fall season.
Q.  When you were 3 down after the 11th, is it hard to still play your game at that point?
WEBB SIMPSON:  I was driving it well, so I didn't really    I didn't become more aggressive.  I just tried to really focus on my yardages so I could get it close.  The pins were a little bit more tucked today.  With how firm the greens were, it made it a little more difficult to get it close.

I didn't really change anything.  I just tried to keep playing smart.  I didn't really try and get more aggressive, but my dad and I just thought that if I kept doing what I was doing, he would probably give me a hole coming in and I could gain a hole or two.
Q.  On 16, were you surprised at the ruling there?
WEBB SIMPSON:  A little bit.  When I heard the practice swing, I was thinking, that's kind of a loud practice swing to have in a hazard.  And I walked over there and I saw him ground it a couple of times.  You can touch the grass, you just can't ground it, but I couldn't tell, they were right there and TV caught it I guess.
Q.  Were you going to lose that hole?  Were you in worse shape than he was?
WEBB SIMPSON:  No, actually I had an opening.  Would I have taken relief from the path and I had like a 150 yard shot.  So if I had gotten a pretty good drop, I could have hit it on, no problem.
CRAIG SMITH:  Very classy.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT