SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2021
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Two more 65s.
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, driving it straight but made a few more putts.  Obviously nice to finish birdieing four of my last six holes, and you know, good position going into Saturday.
Q. Were you pulling each other along, how does it help you to see all the good shots and putts going in?
WEBB SIMPSON:   It does help.  I think seeing good shot before you hit always kind of helps to frame the shot well and then seeing putts go in, you realize, okay, the holes are big enough for these balls to fit in.  I love playing with those two guys.  I've played a lot of golf with them.
Q. You've played here a lot, and you know this golf course, what do you continue to learn when you're playing rounds like this out here?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I think we're always learning.  There's always something to see.  Even my home course, Quail Hollow, I'm still picking up little tidbits here and there about slopes or bounces or missed spots.  If we're going to be out there four and a half hours, might as well pay attention and see if we can learn something.
Q. Back-to-back 65s, calm conditions, much like yesterday afternoon.  Do you feel like you got the most out of your game today?
WEBB SIMPSON:   I do, yeah.  Today wasn't quite as sharp as yesterday.  Hit a ball in the water on 2.  Didn't hit quite as many fairways, but managed really well.  I think staying present this week has allowed me to kind of get through these frustrating moments and finish -- I birdied the last two holes yesterday and today I birdied the last three.  I think being patient on this golf course is paying off for me.  It's one of those days where calm winds, you feel like you need to go shoot 7-, 8-, 9-under, and I was a couple under for a while there.
So really happy with my finish and I thought if I can get it to double digits, I would be at least close to the lead going into Saturday.
Q. It's interesting, when you have a hiccup like you had a couple times out there today, given how well you have played here, either consciously or subconsciously, do you say to yourself, no worries, I've had success and I'll be back on track?
WEBB SIMPSON:   Yeah, it does help for sure.  And also, these green surfaces are so good right now, I feel like if we can read them well and I can aim my putter; we're seeing a lot of putts go in.  Collin made a lot of putts.  Marc made a lot of putts.  I made a lot of putts.  That's always nice knowing you don't have to force birdies, but you put it in the right spot, you're probably going to make some.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT