THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 10, 2019
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is it a hard course to learn quickly?
WEBB SIMPSON: It's a hard course to learn because the wind is such a factor. So there's certain times where left of the green is okay because of the wind and other times with all the wind, left in the same spot might not be -- you might not be able to get it close to the hole. I definitely think experience matters, seeing it in different winds. Though this week we're going to have a similar wind. I think that will be good for the guys.
Q. It's generally regarded as one of the best in the world. Why do you think that is?
WEBB SIMPSON: I think it's a very fair design. I think the fairways for the most part, they are not tight, and the difficulty comes around the greens. They are so firm and so fast and there are big slopes at times, and we don't see it much where the ball runs off the green in the bunker. There's not really fringe or rough areas around the greens. You can putt. I love that. We don't see this speed much. I mean, even Augusta, Augusta won't get this firm. It will get this fast but not this firm.
Q. Is it true that it's kind of the closest thing that there would be to a links course in the U.K. or Ireland? Does it have that feel?
WEBB SIMPSON: It definitely has that feel, yeah. The only thing different from this and a links course I think is a few trees here and there and the greens are more firm than you would see for an Open Championship but there's a lot of similarities.
Q. What does Patrick Reed bring?
WEBB SIMPSON: He brings fire. He brings confidence. He loves to compete. I think seeing his fire, whether we're watching live or you're playing with him, it gets you going a little bit.
Q. What has been the attitude of the team around him after the Bahamas?
WEBB SIMPSON: It hasn't really been an issue at all. I mean, I saw it. I wasn't there, but I always want to give the guy the benefit of the doubt. And you know, I've always liked Patrick, and it's one of those things where I think people think it would be a big deal to the players in terms of it being us talking about it, but not many guys talked about it at all, if any. I wasn't in any conversations about it. But I think a lot of Patrick, and I'm always going to give a guy in that situation the benefit of the doubt.
Q. What do you think of the course?
WEBB SIMPSON: I think it's generous off the tee, and the difficulty comes with the wind and around the greens, the speed of the greens. I think it's like -- there's a lot of similarities to Augusta in the sense of every hole gives you kind of a ball-out, left side, right side, but the greens are so fast and I mean, when the wind blows, the greens get even faster and these greens are firm. A couple greens, you land it, and it's like the ball landing on concrete. It's a very fair test.
I think if this golf course was really tight, it would be too hard, but that's why I think it's such a great design because it's open off the tee and then it gets harder as you get closer.
Q. You've in a bunch of different captains. How is Tiger different, other than the fact he's playing?
WEBB SIMPSON: You know, I feel like every captain I've had, they have captained within their personality. Freddie is laid back. That's how he captained. He didn't say a whole lot. He was easygoing.
Tiger is very focused, very determined. Doesn't say a whole lot but he says the right amount. And it's been great so far. I mean, I guess it's a funny role to be player/captain, but it's been what you would expect, and even more. I think I've communicated with him more than any other captain the last couple months. Text message, he sent me stuff to think about, called me a few times. He's super-involved.
Q. More so than Davis or Freddie?
WEBB SIMPSON: I think it's more of because I'm getting older, I'm the fourth-oldest on this team. When I played here in 2011, I might have been the youngest. So I think it's more of that, but I also think he's into it a lot more than the general public would think. I think they are going to think he's not as interested as he could be. He's very interested. He wants to win. Anything he does, he wants to win. So it's been cool to see how much he's been involved.
Q. What do you remember from your first U.S. Team playing experience?
WEBB SIMPSON: I remember being amazed at the crowds and how loud they would get compared to tournaments in the States. Winning points is so much fun. I mean, it's one of those things where I feel like winning a point in a team event is more joyful than any individual finish you could have because it's just different playing with somebody, and you want to win for your -- you and him and you want to win for your team and you want to win for your country.
I think that's the main difference.
Q. Do you remember your first tee shot at a U.S. event?
WEBB SIMPSON: I do. I was supposed to tee off odds, and that morning we switched it and I went evens and Bubba hit the first tee shot, so my first shot in a team event was like an 88-yard wedge shot.
Q. Is it different than a major?
WEBB SIMPSON: I would say it's the most nervous you could be in golf is in a team event on the first tee. Masters is close but I would say a team event, probably a Ryder Cup.
Q. Because you were here in 2011, are you able then to communicate to some of these younger guys and help Tiger tell them kind of things to do on this golf course?
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I won't speak with the guys much on course strategy. They know what they are doing so well now. The caddies are doing so much work. I played today and Gary didn't play here in 2011, but he knows exactly what he's doing. He's playing great.
If I could do anything to help him I would, but I think they are in good shape.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT