SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 4, 2019
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Hey, Webb, nice little finish for you. Birdied two of the last three holes. A little hiccup in between where I thought it was a rude lip-out on 8.
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah.
Q. But the birdie on your 9th hole, the 18th hole of the round, the par-5, had to feel good.
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it does feel good. Nice finish there with a birdie. There par-5s, you got to score well. The guys that win here typically take care of the par-5s. It's always nice to finish that way.
Yeah, all in all, good, solid day. Our group definitely had a good two days. Fed off each other, and I look forward to a good weekend.
Q. For a while it looked like you were a nomad with the putter, not really knowing what method you were going to use. I'm so impressed. For the last, oh, year and a half now, you haven't been a good putter, you've been one of the better putter on the PGA TOUR. Is there anything that clicked or just finally repetition that's filling in?
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I mean, it is kind of fun to go from one of the worst putter to one of the best putters.
But I learned through bad putting that I didn't have a system. I didn't know why I was doing certain things. Now I have a system. I know how to putt. I know how to work on my putting. It's a great feeling, so I'm thankful.
Q. Few weeks off and now we're back in business for the 2019/2020 season. What is it like knocking that rust off and getting back into the swing of things?
WEBB SIMPSON: It's a bit odd for me because I've had a few weeks off, and after this tournament I'm going to have a few weeks off. It was one where I think a lot of people would think, why don't you just take two and a half months off and not come out, but I love getting out here. I love this golf course, so it feels good to be back in competition.
Q. It's so obvious based on stats and your history here that you like this golf course. What specifically suits your eye and allows you to play well here?
WEBB SIMPSON: I like it because you have to think your way around this golf course. Other courses that we play, you don't think. You hit driver and you hit it as far as you can.
This golf course has doglegs, run-outs, bunkers. You really do have to think. I typically enjoy playing courses where you can hit driver, 3-wood, 5-wood on a lot of these holes.
The last thing is there is a lot of short holes, so scoring clubs, which is always fun. You got to make some birdies here, which is kind of in my wheelhouse.
Q. I would be remiss if I didn't talk about last season and the body of work you put together. What are some goals and things that you're keeping in mind, albeit just one event in the fall schedule right now?
WEBB SIMPSON: Well, you know, we're starting a new season, for me this week, but I have Presidents Cup coming up, which feels like it's from last season.
Yeah, I mean, every year I'm trying to win. I want to get to Maui. I want to contend in the majors. I want to make the team events. I want to make it to Atlanta.
I've done those things this year except win and get to Maui. I still have a couple more chances. We will see what the leaders do tomorrow, but that's on my mind for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT