RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 8, 2019
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You have played 54 holes without making a bogey and I need to know how.  That rough is deep.  Greens are severe.  How?
WEBB SIMPSON: Well, I think it is really difficult to chip around these greens.  But, I mean, sometimes you kind of know how the ball is going to come out; sometimes it's a guess.
I think the times when it's a guess this week I've guessed correctly.  And I've been putting well, especially inside 10 feet.  I've had to make a few 6-, 7-footers, but so far they've gone in and haven't made a blemish yet.
Q. First nine holes, eight pars and a birdie. (Indiscernible).
WEBB SIMPSON: I think so.  I mean, it played tough.  The first hole I hit a high cut 9-iron that released about double what we thought, so we knew early on from the first hole it was going to be tough.  A little different feel than after the first two rounds.
Q. You first time back to the Canadian Open since 2010.  How nice is it to be back?  My first time here in and the atmosphere is amazing.
WEBB SIMPSON: It's great.  I've been thinking it all week.  The fans have been fantastic.  I love this golf course.  Didn't play here in '06.  I've really enjoyed it.  It's nice to be back in Canada.
Q. How important is it to love a golf course?  Matt Kuchar said that's the thing for him, he got on property and thought, I really enjoy this golf course.
WEBB SIMPSON: I think it's big, and especially hopefully we'll come back here soon.  You get to know a place and you love a place, and you get to a place like that no matter how your game is when you come in, you feel like you can compete.
That's how I feel the at a couple courses.  Not many, but a couple on tour.  I enter the week and I feel good about my chances no matter how my game is.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
WEBB SIMPSON: I'm excited about tomorrow.  It's been since the Masters since I had a chance to win, so it's always fun to have a chance.  Look forward to it.
Q. 67 for you, Webb.  How would you assess your round?
WEBB SIMPSON: It was definitely tougher out there today but I hung in there.  Hit a couple loose shots and I was able to save par.
You know what?  The golf course has held up beautifully.  It did firm out today, and I think it's evident in the scores.  Nobody went crazy.  I saw J Bird play great this morning.  I knew anything under par was a good round.
Q. How different was the approach today given the conditions?
WEBB SIMPSON: A little bit different.  You didn't feel like you had to go make birdies.  Pars on lots of these holes is a really good score.  There not that angst of I need to keep making birdies like the first two days.
That was kind of nice.  Change in pace.  I think tomorrow we'll see more of what we saw today.
Q. Just double checked, but through three rounds no bogeys, through 54 holes.  What's been the secret so far?
WEBB SIMPSON: I think when I have missed greens I've chipped it close.  I haven't hit any chip shots or bunker shots that left me 15, 20 feet for par.  To not make bogeys you got to make putts inside ten feet.  This week the putter has been treating me well.
Q. Back in with a chance to win.  It's been a couple months since you had that chance at the Masters.  What does it feel like to be back there?
WEBB SIMPSON: Feels great.  Hadn't played a whole lot in the last couple months, so I'm excited to have a chance.  That's what we want.  Every Thursday we want a chance on Sunday to get in the mix, feel the heat, and especially on a golf course that I love.
This is my first year here, but it's already in my top few favorite courses for the year.
Q. How have you liked your consistency through the first three rounds here?
WEBB SIMPSON: It's been good.  Each round has had a little different look to it for me.  Today I actually like the way hit it better than the first two days, even though my scores is worse.  It's funny how golf is.
But I felt good today.  A little bit windier, a little bit firmer, and I was able to kind of hang in there with the scores not as low as they have been.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT