THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 24, 2018
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about going bogey-free today.
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it was nice to go bogey-free.  Again, it played tough like the last couple days.  Got off to a nice start.  Birdied 3, 8 and 9 and just kind of stayed solid on the back nine.
Q. I saw some putts that I thought were good strokes that could have gone at 16 and again at 18.
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, it's tough to make putts with greens this fast and it being this windy.  That's all I care about is hitting good putts.  I've hit plenty of good putts this week that haven't gone in, and just got to stay focused on staying sharp there.
Q. These numbers go up-and-down, but right now, you're second this week in strokes gained putting and you're 20th this year in putting.  When I think of how far you've come with all the different forms you've used with putting, that's something you should really be proud of.
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I am proud.  I started this method about nine months ago and I feel really comfortable.  It's always nice to see the ball go in the hole, so hopefully they will keep falling tomorrow.
Q. 66 on the scorecard for you, bogey-free.  How did this one come together?
WEBB SIMPSON: It was good all around.  Hit it in the fairway most of the day.  Had a few putts for par that I had to make to keep the momentum going, but today was a little more solid, I think than day one.  Just nice to get in, like you said, bogey-free.
Q. Where is the balance between being aggressive and staying conservative on a day that played a little bit easier?
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah, I think before the round, we kind of know what holes are going to be easier, which holes we can attack a little more on.  There was not a ton of holes that you can be aggressive on.  So we've just got to, it's more in the moment, you realize you've got a good number.  The wind is laying down or you like the wind, and then you go for it from there.
Q. How do you keep it going in the final round?
WEBB SIMPSON: Same stuff.  I've got to stay patient, miss it in the right spots and hopefully I'll continue to hit it and putt it well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT