WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2017
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Webb, you feel pretty good about where you are?
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah.  You know, I would have liked to have shot a little bit better today but, overall, I'm 1-back, I guess, which we'll always take starting the week.  I'm in position to have a good day tomorrow and hopefully I'll do it.
Q. Is there anything different about a tournament going into the final day when there are so many guys that close to the lead?
WEBB SIMPSON: Not really.  But, you know, on a course like this I know that I'm going to have to play a great round of golf to come out on top.
So, again, like everyday, I'm thinking birdies, trying to play aggressive and play smart at the same time and if I can do that, I think I'll have a shot.
Q. I was trying to come up with like another sports comparison to show the scores here this week at Sedgefield at Wyndham.  I keep coming back to the Home Run Derby, you know, just seems like you got to hit a lot of home runs to be successful here.
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah.  Also think this course has defense.  With the undulating greens and around the greens and there is a little bit of rough here to make us think so it's not a walk in the park but certainly if you drive it well you'll have some birdie chances.
Q. Webb, it's been a couple years since you've won.  Does that play on your mind at all or just kind of do what you have to do?
WEBB SIMPSON: Absolutely.  Very hungry to win again, very hungry to compete week-in, week-out regularly.  So, yeah, it's on my mind a little bit but right now I got dinner on my mind and got to come out tomorrow and do my best.
Q. Webb, how big is it for you to be one shot back?
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah.  I didn't really see what was going on out there but, you know, anytime you're within two, three of the lead, you know, you got a good chance and, you know, for most guys on Tour it's not every week that you have a chance to win.  So hopefully I'm going the take advantage of it and come out and play a good solid day.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT