WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2017
Webb Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Webb, 63 and 64.  
WEBB SIMPSON: I mean it's hard to back up a good day like yesterday with a 64 but I actually think I played a little better today.  I was happy with the way I played.  You know, dropped a shot at 8 and 9 didn't help.  Other than that, it was a clean card.   
 Q.  When I watched you play, the distance control with the irons just so on point.  Your proximity, felt like you were inside of 15 feet all day long.  
WEBB SIMPSON: I feel it's difficult with how hot it is, the ball is going to far.  I had one major misjudge on 8 today which cost me a shot there but other than that, our distance has been pretty good.   
 Q.  How about the weekend?  
WEBB SIMPSON: Keep making birdies, stay aggressive and know that there's plenty of good golfers behind me.  I got to keep the hammer down.   
 Q.  Winning here again after that nice performance today.  You look back the your round, your strengths.  
WEBB SIMPSON: I think putting.  I drove it really nice, too, but I think putting on the greens are fast and undulating, so to have some three, four, five-footers for par to kind keep the round going.  I did make some nice birdies.  All in all, good solid day.  Similar to yesterday, maybe a little more consistent than I was yesterday but I'm really happy.   
 Q.  You won here, as I mentioned before.  You grew up in Raleigh, went to Wake Forest, not far from here.  Live in Charlotte.  North Carolina guy.  
 When you come to this championship, are your expectations heightened?   
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah.  I think, one, I enjoy playing here.  I feel comfortable on this golf course.  Having a lot of people out here rooting for me is a great thing.  I want to play well but I got to remember at the end of the day to go out and take care of my business.  Make a lot of birdies around this track.   
 Q.  How do you manage those expectations?  Is it difficult?  
WEBB SIMPSON: Used to be difficult.  Now I know that they're just rooting for me.  But I can't let anybody else affect how I play.  I got to go out there and do my own thing and it sounds so simple but it's hard work.   
 Q.  You had so much success.  Two amazing rounds to start the weekend.  What are you feeling going into the weekend?  
WEBB SIMPSON: I'm excited.  I feel like, you know, lot of birdies are happening out there for us.  You know, obviously the scores are low and I think given the weather forecast the scores will be low this weekend.  Very happy through two days.  Got a lot of work to do.  Got to keep making the birdies.   
 Q.  You felt a certain comfort level knowing it wasn't that long ago you were right in the thick of it in Phoenix.  
WEBB SIMPSON: Yeah.  Feel like my game is better now.  Every time you get in contention, every time you have a chance to win, especially in a playoff, you know, it makes you more hungry to want to have more opportunities and so I guess it's been since Colonial since I had a chance on Sunday, you know.  But before I get ahead of myself, tomorrow is a good day.  I got to play a good, solidly day.   
 Q.  Webb, they're all bunched up tomorrow.  You played a lot of tournaments like that.  What's the mindset?  
WEBB SIMPSON: You know, my mindset is don't worry about what anybody else is doing.  I know guys are going to play well so I got to keep making birdies and stay aggressive and, you know, I can't think that 15-under is going to win.  I'm going to keep doing what I've been doing the last two days and getting the ball in the fairway and, you know, if you're in the fairway here you're going to have birdie opportunities.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT