WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2002
Nick Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about your round, Nick. 
NICK PRICE:   Sure.  It was a pretty tight match, even though, you know, all day he was 2-up after 7 and I gave him the sixth hole, I made bogey there, and he made birdie on 7, then I birdied 8 and he bogeyed 9; so we were kind of even, we were even on our match, but we were even because we both gave one hole to each other. 
And then 10 and 11 I think was the turning point.  I made birdie on 10.   The momentum swung in my favor, and then 11 he 3-putted.  Good, solid finish coming in.  You know, I just kind of held my lead, and then on 15, I missed my second shot in the bunker to the left and hit a good bunker shot up about six feet and missed the putt.  Then he won that hole.
Then I birdied 17.  So it was a good day.  I played really well.  I felt like, you know, I probably played a little bit better than he did today, but I made a couple of nice putts.  You know, it was close.  The 17th hole could have gone either way, but I holed about a 15-, 16-footer for birdie.

Q.  It looks like you are going to play Peter O'Malley. 
NICK PRICE:   Just shows you, match-play, you know, 18-hole match-play, I've always said, favors the underdog.  You know, we kind of watched a little bit of Tiger today and it didn't look like he played very well, but that's neither here nor there.  Peter O'Malley beat him today, and that's a great effort.  You know, he's a good player.  There's no doubt about it. 
Like I say, 18-hole match-play, if you don't play very well and you play against someone, No. 1 player in the world and he doesn't play very well and he plays No.  64, 66 and he plays well, that's what happens in match-play.

Q.  Will you prepare differently for Peter? 
NICK PRICE:   No.  I'll just come and play my best.  I've got a  -- made a few mistakes that I'm going to try to work out on the practice tee and just see.  Maybe I can tighten up my game a little bit, because obviously he's playing well.  If you can play mistake-free in 18 holes, and not make a bogey, it puts a lot of pressure on your opponent.  And today I made two bogeys, which tomorrow, I'd like to get rid of those and then make all of my birdies count. 
You know, like I say, anything can happen in 18-hole match-play.  But I'd rather play Peter than Tiger. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT