THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 11, 2015
Nick Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thought right now?  
NICK PRICE: I don't think it could have got a whole lot more exciting than that.  Just save for a couple of shots and maybe a little bit of inexperience on our side, as a captain, you start questioning where you placed your guys.  But I think I did a pretty good job.  We all did a pretty good job of doing the lineup today.   
I just had a feeling it was going to come down to one of the last two games.  And I'm just so proud of that team.  I tell you what, my team, I can't tell you what it's like to bring eight countries together, eight individuals, speak six different languages, different cultures, and we all came here for the good of the game to play golf.   
They bonded, and I tell you what, I'm so proud; irrelevant of the outcome, we obviously would have loved to have won, but we put on a show of golf this week that I think, you know, golf is the victor this week, that's for sure.   
 Q.  You fought hard to change the format.  You didn't it all the way to your side but you got it pretty much the way you wanted it to be -- can you see the big picture in the effort you guys put up to make this close?  
NICK PRICE: Yeah, but it's all about the players.  It's not about me and it's not about the Cup.  It's the guys who play, and those are the guys that make this Cup.  You take the players out, there's nothing left.   
So these guys have now got an impetus to go on from here.  They have got some fire to go because it got so close.  I remember when Seve lost the Ryder Cup and he went in the locker room, I think it was in'81 or '83, all the guys were down, The European Team and he said, no, this is only one point we lost by.  This we should be excited about.  And I think that's where we the International Team and The Presidents Cup is right now.   
 Q.  Came down to the very last match, the very last hole.  Your team put up a glorious fight trying to win this Presidents Cup.  What is your take on how gutty they were on this Sunday?  
NICK PRICE: This is what The Presidents Cup needed.  There's no doubt.  I'm just so proud of those guys, eight different countries, six different languages.  We came together for the first time on Monday.  We bonded really well.  Save for Thursday, if we had managed to make a couple of points extra on Thursday, I think that may have swung in our favor a bit.   
But you know, I can't tell you how proud I am to be the captain of this team, because they showed grit, they showed -- every single thing that you need in golf, and honestly, I feel so bad for Anirban, as we all do, as we do for Moon.   
But you can't look back at one shot on the 18th hole.  That's often what happens.  You look back, there were mistakes made early on in today's round and yesterday's round and Thursday and Friday.   
We are going to cheer Anirban up.  We are going to make sure he goes away from here with a wonderful experience and not let him dwell on what happened today.   
 Q.  Was there a sense for you that it might come down to that final match?  
NICK PRICE: Well, if Anirban had made that putt, we would have gone to 13 and a half, and we were up in two matches convincingly out there.  Leish still had to play the last couple of holes, but he was one or two up at the time.  And then Branden was up.  So those were our three points that would have put us over the top, but you can always go around and say, what if.   
 Q.  What does this do for The Presidents Cup moving forward, having such a great competition here in South Korea?  
NICK PRICE: I think for the international players, they are going to take a lot from this week.  I know Adam, he was out there and he, having played in seven of these things, he was as nervous as I was, and so were the other guys who played in a few.   
So it was a nail-biter and that's what this has to be.  It has to be exciting.  It has to create an energy and an interest; not only in the US, but globally.  We're going to have Chinese players on this team.  We are going to have south Americans.  We're going to have a lot of players from all around the world, and we want those people to watch and enjoy this Presidents Cup.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT