SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2010
Nick Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you describe your birdie on 18? 
 NICK PRICE: I hit a really good tee shot, I only had an 8-iron in my hand and I kind of pulled it and got it on the wind and actually got a pretty good break because it bounced straight and sort of was just off the back left edge of the green. And I was in a sprinkler head and I took relief. 
 And actually had a pretty nice putt. It was one of those putts that you just felt that if you got it rolling on line it was going to get to the hole. So trying to get it started on line and I had dead speed and it just kind of fell in on the left edge. So dinner's going to taste a little better after making that one. 

 Q. Any comments on the round as a whole?
 NICK PRICE: A little bit -- the start was really tough today. The first five or six holes, when the wind blows this hard even the downwind holes are difficult. Because the ball, with the altitude, coupled with the altitude, the wind the way it's blowing, very difficult to get the right distance. 
 Especially pulling iron shots for your second shot. It's just very difficult. So you sort of are looking at where do you want to miss it if you do miss it. So it's almost like playing a little negatively today. 
 But the back nine I played really well today. I hit a lot of good iron shots, a lot of good tee shots, and I made some putts, which was good. So all in all anywhere under par today, this afternoon particularly, is a good start. 

 Q. How do you feel this sets you up for being in contention the rest of this week?
 NICK PRICE: Well, tomorrow hopefully we won't have, we'll have the same conditions as the guys who played this morning had. Hopefully we'll be able to take advantage of it and make some birdies and go from there. 
 But the wind's tough here in the afternoon. I mean, it blows hard and the greens were a little bumpy this afternoon, which is understandable with the amount of traffic that's been over them. But they're holding up really well and you know, all in all I would be very happy, I would have been very happy this morning if you said, Nick, you're going to shoot 2-under.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT