CHAMPIONS TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 7, 2007
Nick Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   RICK GEORGE:  Champions Tour majors are on network for the first time.  We also have a great schedule for our majors, separating the majors on some of the best venues for major championships on any Tour we play, Kiawah Island for the Senior PGA, Whistling Straits for the U.S. Senior Open, Muirfield for the Senior British, Crosswater Club at Sun River Resort for the JELD-WEN Tradition, and then Baltimore Country Club for the Constellation Energy Senior Players Championship.  So we feel very good about our major championships, where they're being played.   
 We also are very positive about our schedule for 2007 and beyond.  We finally got the Florida Swing back.  We have two new events from Florida on the '07 schedule starting with the Allianz Championship this week in Boca.  That was a very important objective for us to get that back on our schedule in south Florida because it solidifies what we thought was a great schedule, but it solidifies the early part of the year to play three events in Florida to kick off the mainland events for the Champions Tour.   
 So we're excited that we were able to get that on, and we also added the Ginn Championship at Hammock Beach, and with that coming aboard we're basically on every coast in the Sunshine State with the Allianz Championship in Boca, the Outback Steakhouse Pro-Am next week in Tampa, the Ace Group Classic in Naples, the Ginn Championship as I mentioned in Palm Coast, and then the Boeing Championship at Sandestin in May, which is a great swing for the state of Florida, and with the five Champions Tour Florida events, we're going to gain about 75 hours of broadcasting exposure in Florida with 75 million households obviously on The Golf Channel and the reach that they have around the world.   
 And if you combine the six Florida PGA TOUR tournaments that follow in March and later in the year, we'll have over 87 hours of original broadcast and 30 hours of re-air of our Champions Tour and PGA TOUR, which provides a tremendous amount of exposure for Florida golf and tourism in the state, with 11 official money events and 15 total events from both tours, which we think is pretty amazing.   
 Anyway, I don't want to keep everybody too long because I normally wouldn't keep a World Golf Hall of Famer waiting this long, so I'd like to save the best for last, Nick Price, and I think those of you who know Nick and those of you that don't are going to find there's not a better gentleman in golf and in any professional sport around the world.  Nick's debut this week is the start of what we think is a real star-studded lineup of former PGA TOUR and international champions turning 50 that are eligible for the Champions Tour this year.   
 Mark O'Meara is anticipated to make his debut next week at the Outback Steakhouse Pro-Am.  Other eligible players this year include World Golf Hall of Famer Seve Ballesteros who becomes eligible April 9th; Nick Faldo turns eligible on July 18th, although we don't anticipate he'll play much of a Champions Tour schedule, we do anticipate we'll see him a couple times during the year; Bernhard Langer turns August 27, and he was on-site yesterday at the Allianz Championship in the Junior Pro-Am watching his son and daughter play.  And then later in the year Jeff Sluman and John Cook turn 50, and those are just some of the names that are coming on this Tour.   
 We're very fortunate to have a player of Nick's stature and character leading off our class of 2007, a World Golf Hall of Famer.  He's an 18-time champion on the PGA TOUR.  Among his victories include the 1992 PGA Championship, the '93 PLAYERS Championship, the '94 British Open, and the 1994 PGA Championship.   
 I can't tell you how excited we are for Nick's coming on to play on the Champions Tour this year.  We think he's going to add a lot to what we do interacting with our sponsors and our fans, and I know that Nick with the chance to compete and his will to win that we'll undoubtedly have one heck of a year on the Champions Tour, and we're excited that he's making his debut at the Allianz Championship.   
 And with that, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce Nick Price to the conference call, so welcome, Nick, to the Champions Tour.  Nick?   
 NICK PRICE:  Thanks, Rick.   
 Just to give you maybe an overview of where I've been, what I've been doing and how I stand, you know, the last couple of years I played out on the regular Tour with very little success.  I basically felt that my tenure on the PGA TOUR was coming to an end.  The game kind of passed me by a little bit with -- obviously many of you know I had voiced my opinions about the length of the golf courses, and I just felt that I wanted to keep playing out there just to stay in touch.   
 And I still enjoy playing golf, and even though I wasn't competitive the last two years, I tried to stay in touch and keep my game in some form of shape so that when I got out here that I could be competitive again.  I think it's a lot harder when you take time off, especially two years, if you take two years away from the game to try and come out and play well again.   
 I think Loren Roberts and a lot of the other guys have proven that if you stay playing through your late 40s and into your 50s, you're ready for the Senior Tour.  And he showed a very sort of seamless transition.  So that's one of the reasons why I kept playing.   
 I certainly didn't have a whole lot of fun the last two years, but I persevered, and I'm happy to be out here.  I think like everyone else, I play golf to be competitive and to enjoy it, and I'm hoping that I will -- both of those things will happen for me this year; that A, I'll enjoy it, which is the biggest goal that I have out here; and also, that I can get competitive again.   
 I certainly don't feel right now that my game is in shape to win out here.  It's going to have -- I'm going to have to sharpen it up a notch or two, but I think that maybe in three, four weeks or maybe a couple of months I'll have my game in shape and be ready to compete.  You know, I'm just looking forward to playing golf again and having fun because, as I said, for the last two years it hasn't been much fun.   
  
  Q.  I want to know what your schedule might be on the Champions Tour and how many PGA TOUR events will you still try to work into your mix.   
 NICK PRICE:  Well, I've sort of looked at the schedule, and I think I'll probably play 15 or 16 on the Champions Tour, and if I play well and I enjoy it, I'll certainly play a lot more than that, but right now that's what I'm sort of geared to play.   
 The regular Tour, I don't really know.  It depends on how -- there's obviously still a few courses out there that I feel I can compete on if my game is in shape, and I'll certainly look at those events around the time, Colonial, a couple of those, Byron Nelson, and see how -- I don't really want to get into a conflict with the Champions Tour.  I'd rather sort of just stay out here and play.  But there are a couple events I feel that I will play if I play well enough.  But I think the majority of my golf is going to be played out here now.   
  
  Q.  And will you also still keep playing the PGA and the British?   
 NICK PRICE:  Well, no, I'm going to -- my summertime with my family is very important to me, and until such time as they're older and they get out of my wife's hair, I'm going to continue to take most of the summer off, as I have done in the past couple of years.  I'll play pretty strong through early July and then back again in August, September.   
  
  Q.  You talked a little bit about just being able to compete again and feeling like you can be in the mix going into a tournament.  Can you talk about how you're looking forward to that feeling and what the last couple years have been like for you?   
 NICK PRICE:  The last couple years were purgatory, to be honest.  It was very hard going out there and playing when you felt that -- I think the last realistic chance I had of winning an event was the 2005 Byron Nelson, which is what, May of 2005.  So since then it's kind of been downhill for me.   
 I think one of the hardest things was that I tried to change my game when I was 48.  I tried to start hitting the ball really hard because I felt that you really had to hit the ball a certain distance to compete consistently out on the PGA TOUR.   
 And so now coming back onto the Champions Tour I think it's going to be a little different because the courses aren't that long and there isn't a huge -- there isn't a prerequisite on length.  So that's a good thing for me.   
 You know, I'm just hoping that it's kind of like riding a bicycle, that once I get back into having a chance to win that I'll remember how it goes because it has been a while.  But, you know, I just think if you -- golf is all about working on your game, getting it in shape, and I started at the beginning of the year getting my game into some shape, and now it's going to take playing in a tournament -- tournament practice and tournament competition to get my game to the next level.  So that's what I'm hoping.   
  
  Q.  If I can ask one more quick question, I'm doing a piece on holes-in-one.  You were involved in one of the more famous holes-in-one in golf in the U.S. Open.  Can you talk about your memories of that hole-in-one?   
 NICK PRICE:  One of the things I'll never forget is my caddie and I walked on that tee, and there was a marshal on the tee, and he started telling us there's been two holes-in-one, and we said, "We're aware of that, thank you."  He said, "Well, what do you want to do?"  And he started going into this thing.  I can't remember specifically what he said.  And I sort of like brushed him off, but he was telling me basically how to make this one.   
 So I was trying not to pay too much attention because, you know, he's giving advice.  So I didn't listen to it too much.  But my caddie was kind of listening to him.  It was my turn to hit, and I think I hit a 7-iron and I was aiming straight at the flag and I pushed it a little bit, and as the ball is in the air, he said, "That's it, that's the way to play it."  The ball bounced on the green, turned to the left and came back into the hole (laughing).   
 He thought that it was his advice that had made me -- had given me the one.   
  
  Q.  You were the third hole-in-one on that day?   
 NICK PRICE:  I was the third one, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell us what the reaction was from that gallery?   
 NICK PRICE:  It was disbelief almost.  People were just jumping around.  I think the USGA were worried that they put the pin in too easy a place.  It was an amazing feeling.  I think that was on my front nine, and 14 holes later I missed the cut.   
  
  Q.  How excited are you about playing on the Champions Tour?  I was listening to your opening remarks, and you sound like a guy who was kind of looking for a breath of fresh air, a recharge, both about the enthusiasm for the game and looking forward to competing again?   
 NICK PRICE:  I am.  That's what I've been, I've been a competitor most of my life, and to have had that taken away from me the last two years, it wasn't much of an experience that I want to go through again.  I can assure you that if I have to start going through that experience again, I will hang up my clubs.   
 The only reason I didn't hang up my clubs the last few years is because I knew the Champions Tour was around the corner and I wanted to keep my game in shape.  I'm taking it step by step out here because there are a lot of guys out here who are still very competitive and who can shoot some really low numbers, and I've got to catch up.  I feel deep down inside of me that I can do it and get out here and compete with these guys, but as I said, I've got to pick my game up a notch because it hasn't been competitive.  But I hope it is.   
 If it does get back, then I'll get really excited about playing golf again.   
  
  Q.  Was there a low moment in that last two years, a moment you just don't want to ever remember?   
 NICK PRICE:  Just pick a month (laughter).  Except for July and August because that was when I was on holiday with my kids.   
 Honestly, I had some terrible times last year.  I tried to keep a brave face on, but it was awful.  It was really -- it was a very hard period in my life.  You know, what happens, when you start playing poorly, you don't really want to go and practice, so it's self-perpetuating the bad play.  Towards the end I sort of just would show up and play and then go home.  Too many short weeks.   
  
  Q.  The Champions Tour took a lot of criticism last year that it was lacking some big names, and you kind of pumped some energy into that, you and Fred Funk.  How do you feel about this year's crop?   
 NICK PRICE:  Yeah, I think if I start playing well and competing, I'll do the Tour a lot of -- hopefully help the Tour.  But if I don't, I'm not going to help anybody.  You know, I do feel a little bit of pressure on me in that a lot of my friends and people who I know and play golf with, they said, "Well, you're going to go out there and clean up."  I said, "Well, it's not going to be that easy."  You're playing against guys who play hard, play a lot.  Dana Quigley, Tom Kite, those guys work harder than probably I did when I was 35.   
 So it's one of these things that I've really got to build up a bit of confidence and then get going.  But I think it's an exciting year for the Champions Tour.  I think certainly 1957 was a great year for golf, and I look forward to seeing Seve out here.  You know, if Seve can come out here and just find a little bit of confidence -- I mean, he was such a wonderful player for everyone to watch, and I think he still will be.  I don't know how much Faldo is going to play, but certainly O'Meara and Sluman and Cook, I know they're going to play as much as I will.   
 It'll be fun playing with those guys again, Bernhard Langer, obviously -- Bernhard Langer, I think he's going to come out here and play phenomenally well because he's played well, much like Fred Funk has, and I think that he'll be a great asset to this Tour.   
  
  Q.  Lastly, do you think you can beat Gary Player right now?  Your thoughts on Gary and just still going at it.   
 NICK PRICE:  Well, he and Arnold, they love the game more than anything else.  I don't know.  I mean, I don't want to say too much because I think he's -- by that I mean I'm certainly not going to be around when I'm that age because you never know.  But he keeps going.   
 I mean, I don't know how many times he's shot his age in tournament play, but it's incredible.  He probably feels that he can still win again.  And if you ask Gary I'm sure he'll tell you that he can.  He just loves playing golf.  I don't know that I'll be able to do that when I'm 70.   
  
  Q.  For someone like you whose career has already got them into the Hall of Fame, is there a risk of feeling pressure to play up to the legacy that you've already established?   
 NICK PRICE:  I think absolutely because people, they -- I think most people want you to play the way that you played when you were playing well.  My game is not that good anymore.  It's not as good as it used to be.   
 But I still think out here I can bring some value and some entertainment to the folks who watch, and that's what I want to do.  It's not really about -- I don't know how the best way to describe it is, but I just think if I come out here and play well and enjoy myself and compete, I'll add a little bit of sparkle to the Tour, and all those other guys that are coming out.  The Tour is made up of individuals, and each one contributes in his own way, be it large or small, to the ongoing success of the Champions Tour.   
 I think our generation, certainly my generation, is still very appreciative of the sponsors and amateurs and the people who are involved in the administration of golf, the running of the weekly tournaments.   
 And so it's actually a wonderful feeling.  I mean, coming out here this morning on my first day, it's just everyone is happy to be here, not only the players but everyone else, the sponsors, and -- so it's really a great feeling.   
  
  Q.  Have you spoken to any senior players for a scouting report, and what have you been told?   
 NICK PRICE:  I've asked a lot of guys about the golf courses we play, and sort of where to stay and things like that because after having been on the PGA TOUR for so long, I knew exactly where every hotel and every best restaurant was around.  So this is going to be a learning experience.  Playing two Pro-Ams every week is actually going to be good for me this year because I get to see the course twice before the tournament starts.   
 I've spoken to a few guys.  But you always get different opinions from different players when you ask them the same question, so you sort of stick to the guys that you know well and you trust their word and say, okay, if this is the right hotel or that's a good golf course for me, then I'll go.   
  
  Q.  We sort of take it for granted now, there's a ton of international players on the PGA TOUR, but back when you were coming up, the numbers weren't so big, and I'm just curious if when you were aspiring to be a pro golfer if that looked daunting to you to make it to the PGA TOUR?  Did it seem like a world away to you?   
 NICK PRICE:  I think it was a lot harder for us.  I mean, trying to get an invite into Augusta back in the late '70s and early '80s was almost impossible.  They didn't have a World Ranking in those days, and I probably had two or three occasions, two or three years, certainly 1980 and 1981, maybe '82, that I felt I warranted an invitation there, and I didn't even come close.   
 You know, nowadays it's a lot easier to get into Augusta from an overseas point of view because there's a World Ranking.  If you play well overseas you get enough points and you get into the top 50.  Man, if your name wasn't Gary Player or Graham Marsh or something, they didn't even know who you were at Augusta.  So from that point of view it's a lot easier for those guys.   
 I think that the international players, Greg Norman, myself and other guys, we may have paved the way or opened a few doors for those guys; certainly the World Ranking has had a huge impact, I think, for the European Tour and allowed those guys to come across.   
 You know, I think it's good and it's great that there's an international flavor in golf.  The more viewers we have watching the PGA TOUR worldwide, the better off we are.   
 You take a look at the number of Australian players that are coming out here.  You can certainly credit Greg Norman for doing that because I think so many young boys back in the late '80s and early '90s idolized Greg and started playing golf because of him, and that's a good thing.   
  
  Q.  Quick question about your swing.  Of course we're hopeful we'll see you in Austin.  I know you've always gripped the club firmly, and I was looking at the book you did with Loren, and you said something like 7 or 8 on a scale of firmness from 1 to 10.  Did you ever think you needed to revisit that, that it might be too firm?   
 NICK PRICE:  (Laughing) over the last two years I think I revisited everything I ever worked on trying to find something.  A leopard doesn't change his spots.  When you've been going at the ball like I have all these years, you just can't suddenly decide you're going to change.  So you've got to -- and I tried to do that because I was trying to hit the ball further.   
 But I figured out that hitting the ball further is not going to happen when you get to 48, 49.  That's one of the things why I'm happy being out here.  I think I'll be happier being out here on the Champions Tour because it's not about hitting driver 320 yards out here.   
  
  Q.  Have you always gripped the putter that firmly?   
 NICK PRICE:  Oh, no, the putter is a lot softer.   
  
  Q.  The Arnold Palmer records, did you actually listen to those as a boy?   
 NICK PRICE:  Oh, yeah.  In fact I think I've still got them somewhere at the house.   
  
  Q.  And did you get anything from them?   
 NICK PRICE:  Oh, yeah.  I mean, Arnold Palmer was -- he was an icon.  But I mean, just looking through those books, Arnold Palmer, all the guys I learned, probably Nicklaus was probably the only one that didn't grip it that tight, but Player and Palmer and those guys used to hold the club pretty tight.   
  
  Q.  Have you made any equipment changes and/or caddie changes for this year?   
 NICK PRICE:  Equipment, no.  Caddie changes, I've had the same guy working for me for the last -- since about -- early last year he started working for me, Matt Minister.  He worked for Chris Smith on the regular Tour for about five years, and they parted company, and Jimmy, my old caddie went to work for Charlie Howell.  I kind of gave him the bullet because I knew my game was going south and he needed to find a young player who could make him some money.  Jimmy left, and Matt has been caddying for me since Jimmy left.   
  
  Q.  In regards to the Champions Tour courses, do you -- you mentioned they're not as long.  I imagine they may not be tucking pins two paces from the edge and things like that.  Given that fact, it's going to take to win some of these tournaments a couple of rounds like Fred Funk did sometimes, where he went 64-64 on the weekend, how have you been comfortable in the past with events where you've had to shoot 20-under to win?   
 NICK PRICE:  You know, I have my fair share of them.  I mean, ideally I always enjoy anywhere around high single digits or low double digits, anywhere from I think 8- to 12-under was sort of my comfort zone when I got on the course where the winning score was around there.  I think I seemed to play my best.  And I'm sure there's going to be some courses out here that will be like that, and I know there's going to be some where the scores are going to be a lot lower.   
 I sort of want a cross-section.  I don't want to just stick with one -- I could shoot lights out when I putted really well, but generally speaking, I think that 8- to 12-under was my comfort range.   
  
  Q.  Lead said the other day that he had a session with you I guess last week.  Just wondering, the state of your game, how are you hitting the ball?  Are you encouraged?  Are you discouraged?  Where does that stand?   
 NICK PRICE:  Good question.  On a scale of 1 to 10, I'm probably at about a 6 on where I think I should be.  So I'm on the right side, but I've still got a ways to go.  Who knows, when time has gone by I've won when I've played at a 6.  But I need to get my game up to a 7 or an 8 before I feel I'm going to be competitive out here.   
  
  Q.  And what specifically are you working on in your game right now?   
 NICK PRICE:  Basically all the same things that I've worked on over the years.  You just get out of kilter.  Posture, alignment, and a couple of things with my shoulders.  I think as you get older, your bad habits are compounded and they seem to come out even stronger than they've ever been.  So being aware of them is one thing, but the other thing is also to try and work them out.   
 You know, I've got a bit of work to do, but I'm not totally saying that I'm not going to play well over the next couple of weeks, but I certainly don't have huge expectations.   
  
  Q.  Rick said at the top of the show that Hale Irwin has 45 career victories on the Champions Tour.  What do you think of that figure?  Does that look daunting to you?   
 NICK PRICE:  I don't think I'm ever going to come anywhere near that.  I'm not going to play enough to do that.  I've got kids 15, 13 and 10.  I've got another seven, eight years with my youngest, and there's no way that I am going to drag her around America and the world following us on golf tournaments.  Her life and our lives take a priority over all of that.   
 Other guys who have come out here and really excelled are guys who don't -- the kids are gone to college.  They're empty-nesters.  They come out and play and basically they've got nothing else to do with their lives, not that it's a negative thing, but they've got nothing other to do than to play golf.   
  
  Q.  It's a timing issue almost, isn't it?   
 NICK PRICE:  It is a timing issue.  I think everyone has a different sort of maturity or their kids grow up at a different age.  Jay Haas, his kids are just about gone, Loren Roberts has still got youngish kids, but I've got to be a good father before anything else.  I'm not going to neglect my kids over the next five or six years just because I want to compete in golf.   
 But I am going to compete, and we've discussed this the last couple of years with the kids, and they're all for me coming out and playing.  But they want their spring break, their summer vacations, and I don't blame them.  We dragged them around the world when they were younger following me playing golf, and summer vacation for a week in a hotel at the British Open in the middle of the summer is not a summer vacation for them.  It's sort of like a payback time for them as far as I'm concerned.   
  
  Q.  One last question, with respect to pace of play, which I know you've always felt strongly about, it's certainly showing no signs of abating.  What are your thoughts about it?   
 NICK PRICE:  Fines.  Fines.  Fine them.  Penalties, two-shot penalties, a fine.  A warning, a fine and then a penalty.  That's the only way they're going to stop it.  I don't know how they're going to enforce it, but the only time any guy is going to pay attention is when you penalize him for slow play because it's such a disease, and there is no way on this earth that three professional golfers should take more than 4:15, 4:20, to play 18 holes of golf.   
  
  Q.  You'll find on the Champions Tour we play quickly.   
 NICK PRICE:  That's what I'm looking forward to, threesomes.  McNulty has given me the heads up there because that was one of the first questions I asked him, what's the pace of play like.  I think most of the guys out here, we learned a long time ago that the longer you take, the worse it gets.   
  
  Q.  The players have somewhat of a responsibility.  Obviously average golfers look to the pros and see that as an example.   
 NICK PRICE:  It's terrible.  It's terrible.  The problem is that there's only maybe a handful of slow players certainly on the PGA TOUR who make everyone else's lives a misery.  There's maybe 12 or 15 or 20 guys who are slow players, and they just slow down the rest of us.  A fast player has to play at the pace of a slow player; a slow player doesn't have to play at the pace of a fast player.  That's what's so one-sided.   
 Anyone who's played rapidly or doesn't mess about on the golf course, there's nothing more frustrating than playing with a guy who pulls the same club out three times, then puts his glove on, then looks at the yardage again, throws the grass up, asks his caddie 15 questions and then suddenly decides to hit it.  You know, there's nothing worse, and those guys should be fined.   
  
  Q.  What was your strategy for combating it or dealing with it?   
 NICK PRICE:  I just used to put my mind in neutral.  You had to.  You had to.  You had to learn to deal with it.  If you're playing with someone who was really slow, then I would walk slowly, as well, up to my ball so I wouldn't have to wait around at my ball while he was fiddling around getting ready to hit.   
 So I'd sort of walk around 20, 30 yards away from my ball and then get to my ball just as he hits, so I could go through my same time zone.  So you learn as the years go by how to deal with it.  There's nothing more selfish than a slow golfer.   
  
  Q.  You played the course today at the Pro-Am.  What did you think?   
 NICK PRICE:  I really enjoyed it.  It's in good shape.  We had a really warm winter so there's a lot of grass on the golf course, which is good.  It's in good shape.  This is the kind of golf course that I've played many times in Florida, so it's great for me to start here, plus the weather is beautiful.  I'm looking forward to playing this week.   
  
  Q.  You're a former No. 1 guy in the world.  Today Tiger is obviously the dominant guy out there.  Do you think it's better for the TOUR to have one dominant guy, whether it was you or Tiger or Phil that people can shoot at, or is parity a better thing out there?   
 NICK PRICE:  No, we need -- Tiger needs two, three guys to start challenging him, we really do.  I don't know how the best way to describe it, but when two guys sit down and watch TV on Sunday, the one guy is -- betting amongst each other, one guy is going to say, "I want Tiger."  Then the other guy, who is he going to pick?  Nine times out of ten the guy who's picked Tiger is going to win.   
 What needs to happen is you need to see Ernie, you need to see Mickelson, you need to see Vijay, these guys, playing more consistently and competing against him more consistently.  I think the way Tiger has just absolutely dominated is that he is -- he just doesn't make as many mistakes as the other guys.  He hates making bogeys, and I think these other guys really need to come to the party more.  They need to come out there and -- certainly if I were one of them, I'd be watching Tiger, the way he plays, and see if I can learn something, why he's beating me every second week or whatever, and figure out a way how to beat this guy.   
 The simple thing is, as far as I'm concerned, is they really have to stop making mistakes and being forced into making mistakes.  Tiger just plays incredibly smart golf, and just -- he doesn't shoot at pins he doesn't have to, and he never really puts any pressure on himself, and when he does need to make a great putt, he does.   
 I think we need to great -- great competition in sports is the best thing of all time, Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, Gary Player, that was wonderful; Tom Watson and Jack Nicklaus through the late '70s and '80s; before that you had Hogan, Nelson and Snead, wonderful three players.  Just one of them was going to win.  And then later on it was Norman, Faldo and myself, Fred.  There was always one of us vying for No. 1.   
 I think we need to see that No. 1 -- the position change every now and then.  There's no doubt Tiger is going to be -- if not the best, one of the two best players ever to play the game.  There's no dispute about that.   
 But we also need him to get knocked off his perch every now and then for short periods of time.  I think that would be very healthy for the game.   
  
  Q.  Let me ask you one Masters question.  You said you were waiting for your invitation to finally get there.  Once it came and you had a lot of success there and the course record, looking back, what do you think would be your favorite memory or one of your favorite memories from Augusta National?   
 NICK PRICE:  My favorite was the Sunday that Jack Nicklaus won in 1986.  I had shot a 63 on the Saturday, but that Sunday was probably the most -- outside of any of the majors that I won, one of the best days I ever had in a major championship because there was so much going on that day.  Ballesteros, Kite played well that day, Ballesteros played great, Jack Nicklaus played unbelievable, Norman played great at the ending.  There was so much going on, and the roars that were going on out there.   
 I think I finished like four shots behind Jack, but I didn't do anything that day.  I shot a very weak 71 and would have had an opportunity if I shot 68 or 67 that day to have won.  But I didn't have the game in me.  I think I had used up all my birdies the day before.  But it was just the most incredible day of sounds, atmosphere, just the excitement and everything.   
 I don't think they're ever going to have those days again at Augusta because they've ruined the golf course, which is kind of sad.  You know, if you can get everyone to hit the ball like Tiger, if you had 60 Tigers out there, then you might have that again.  There isn't 60 Tigers.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Also, thanks to Dave Senko for the comment earlier about Gary Player.  Gary Player has bettered his age six times and he's shot his age or better 14 times at 71 years young.   
 Nick, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT