CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 9, 2012
Rick Adcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thank you very much.   Here with Rick Adcock, who's been on the bag since the Greenbrier Classic in West Virginia.   Pretty scary times out there for you.   He seemed to be in pretty good spirits for a while, but did it get a little more serious toward the end?  
RICK ADCOCK:   It got kind of scary.   I gotta give Charlie credit for what he did.   He finished.   I thought he was going to quit out there a few times.   He sat on the bag a few times.   He laid down a few times.   Unbelievable.   
It actually started at the beginning.  
   
 Q.   That's what he said.   He asked for medical attention on the practice take.   
RICK ADCOCK:   Yes, he did.  
   
 Q.   And he also said that he's experienced these shortness of breath‑‑  
RICK ADCOCK:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   ‑‑ and elevated heart rate symptoms already this year.   
RICK ADCOCK:   Yes, he has.   I don't know a whole lot about them.   It's happened.  
   
 Q.   And the decision to get him the ambulance?  
RICK ADCOCK:   I think he was scared.   He kept saying he thought he was going to die.   He just had that feeling.   I don't know why.   But it was spooky.  
   
 Q.   When I first got up to your group, I said that.   I said he looks to be in pretty good spirits.   You were raking the bunker back when he staked it on about the 13th or 14th hole.   
RICK ADCOCK:   Unbelievable shot.   Unbelievable shot.   I mean I don't know how he hit the golf ball feeling the way he was feeling.   What a guy.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure after you get done with all the press interviews here, because there are plenty, you're going to go visit him at the hospital.   What will you tell him, and do you expect him to be out here tomorrow?   Obviously there's no way to tell.   We're not doctors, but what do you think?   What's your gut tell you?  
RICK ADCOCK:   Well, to me, that doesn't matter.   This is a golf tournament.   He's got many more golf tournaments ahead of him, and if he can't go, that's fine.   I hope he can.   He's in a great position.   It's a tough situation.   
If he can't go, I got no problem with that.   
   
 Q.   Very well said, and we echo your thoughts that more than anything we hope he just is fine, and if he does play tomorrow, good luck to both of you.   
RICK ADCOCK:   Thanks.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised that he didn't stop in the middle of the round?  
RICK ADCOCK:   I thought a lot of times he was going to stop.   I didn't think he was even going to start.   He asked me to go find a doctor at the beginning, and I did.   The paramedics come over.   We called them at the turn.   They were on No. 10 waiting on him.   Blood pressure wasn't good then.   For him to go on, that was pretty much his decision.   
   
 Q.   They took his blood pressure on the range, too, before he started?  
RICK ADCOCK:   That I don't know if they did or not.   I don't think they did.   You know, they might have.   I don't know.   They were doing their thing, so I was standing back.   But I know they did on No. 10 and they said it wasn't very good.   What it was, I don't know offhand.   
But he hit some great shots.   He birdied 10, eagled 11.   It's kind of a spooky thing.   
   
 Q.   Did he say anything to you on the course?  
RICK ADCOCK:   He kept giving him water and something to eat.   He ate quite a bit of nature valley bars, drink a lot of water, Gatorade.   He usually goes to the bathroom a lot.   He didn't do that, which is not like him.   
Hopefully everything's fine.   I think on the way to the hospital, I mean the good thing is he got up in there and went to the bathroom before they took him out.   So that's a good sign, for me.  
   
 Q.   Did he say anything in there?  
RICK ADCOCK:   No, he didn't.  
   
 Q.   Did he relate to you at all what he was feeling, what he was going through?  
RICK ADCOCK:   He had some numbness in his arms.  
   
 Q.   Shortness of breath?  
RICK ADCOCK:   He just felt like he was going to faint.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT