NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2014
Derek Fathauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You shoot 76 but you're still tied for the lead.   Is that as much as you can expect? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   I didn't really look at where I'm at.   I just kind of tried to see like ‑‑ I felt like I made a lot of mistakes on the front nine. 
I sort of pushed a little bit.   Like I said, I didn't want to do it, but I sort of steadied it a little bit on the back nine.   So, I still kind of drove it poorly today and didn't make any putts.   So that's what 76 ‑‑ I guess that's what you shoot. 
But looking forward to tomorrow, it will be fun.   Another learning day. 
I'll give it my best shot and see where it puts me.

Q.   You made a nice par on 15 and then birdie on 16, do you think maybe you steadied yourself and that might have been kind of key moving into tomorrow keeping yourself right there?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, I would have liked to‑‑ I told my caddie I wanted to birdie three of the last four holes.   I made that putt, and then birdied 16, and then missed a short one at 17, and then hit a really good drive on 18 and ended up too good.   Too close to the green.   I kind of had to play away from the pin. 
So just kind of a funky day.   But I feel like I handled it well, and the only reason I think I shot the number I shot today, is a couple ‑‑ I managed myself poorly on two holes on the front nine.   I made two bogeys.   It wasn't an easy day at all. 

Q.   Do you feel like the course played significantly different than yesterday or do you feel like the toughness level was fairly similar?
DEREK FATHAUER:   The greens were really fast and kind of crispy around the holes.   They were tough to make putts.   But you get a little nervous when you play with the lead and play with the leader, so it's kind of not as freed up. 
But, tomorrow hopefully, I got this out of my system and I'll have a good round tomorrow.

Q.   The golf course does not lend itself to low scores when it's windy.   Greens are getting, harder, right.   It's a hard golf course. 
DEREK FATHAUER:   It's as tough as you can get right now.   Those greens are really firm and where the pins are, it's almost impossible to get your ball close.   So you got to make some putts to shoot anything near even par out there. 

Q.   And they're not straight putts either. 
DEREK FATHAUER:   No.   No.   Big sliders. 

Q.   How do you keep from not getting frustrated?   Because at the end of the day you're still in a good spot, even though the course was playing so tough. 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Well, it's just something I've been working on.   Sure, I'm frustrated.   But it's over, it's done with.
All can I do is go sit down and kind of think about what I could have done better today, and hopefully, play well tomorrow. 
But I think I've got a good game plan and good strategy for this golf course, so hopefully I'll hit better shots tomorrow and see where that puts me.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT