NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2014
Derek Fathauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did things go today?   Obviously a little bit different score than yesterday. 
DEREK FATHAUER:   That was something special, so it's hard to follow up something like that.   But overall pleased with my round today.   Made two bogeys in a row, and that didn't sit very well, but got them back, and 2‑under I think is pretty respectable round out there. 

Q.   I know the scores were‑‑ it was almost like two shots higher today, the scoring average.   Any reason you think it was much different today? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   It's cooler out, maybe a little more wind.   The greens are a little bit firmer.   Some of those pins out there were really, really tricky.   I guess that'll do it right there. 

Q.   Do you think your score yesterday was the reason the pins were maybe tucked away a little more?
DEREK FATHAUER:   No, I think they have those figured out before we go out there.   But I'd like to think so.

Q.   Because you're not the only guy who made a comment on the pins today. 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, everybody was talking about them I'm sure. 

Q.   Your birdies, No.10‑‑
DEREK FATHAUER:   Started the day, yeah, I hit it in there close, yeah, five feet, four feet.

Q.   No.13, par‑3?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Oh, I hit it really close there.   I probably hit it a foot or two. 

Q.   What did you hit?
DEREK FATHAUER:   6‑iron. 

Q.   And then what happened with the bogeys on 1 and 2?
DEREK FATHAUER:   I just missed a short putt for par on 1.   I was kind of out of position off the tee and second shot, hit a great chip, missed the putt.

Q.   How far was the putt probably?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Four feet.

Q.   And then 2? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Out of position off the tee, then again on the second shot, then just chipped it up as close as I could, and I chipped it to 30 feet and missed it.   It was a bad hole from the start there. 

Q.   Birdies on 4 and 7. 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Hit a good wedge shot in on 4 and made a really tough‑‑ probably six‑, seven‑footer, a really tough one. 

Q.   You had the 36‑hole lead last week.   It's not official yet, but it's looking like you will.   If not, you'll probably be tied.   Do you feel like this is becoming old hat for you?   Do you feel like you're playing well enough where it should be the case?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, I feel like I'm playing well enough, but who's to say where I end up.   I feel like if I play well, whether I'm in the lead or not, wherever I finish, if I play well, I feel like if I play well like I did these two days, I felt like I played great, didn't make too many mistakes, I wouldn't care if I was in 20th place or first place.   It doesn't matter.   But I feel good about what I did. 

Q.   How did these two rounds here compare to your first two rounds last week?   Better? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Last week my first round was‑‑ I played really well, and then kind of lost a few shots coming in.   That was in the first round.   And then in the second round it was pretty solid to follow a 66 with another 66.   Different golf courses, too.   This one is a lot tougher.

Q.   What happened the last two rounds last week?   Anything that you need to avoid here? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Well, I talked to you about it a little bit yesterday, but just staying patient and sticking to my game plan. 

Q.   When you say stick to your game plan, you talked about everything yesterday in your game plan, but what is that here?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Out here?   Just not always hitting at the pins and trying to pick the best club off the tee to get you in the fairway.   That's about it.   Playing to the wide side of the pins a little bit, and trying to get as many putts for birdie as I can. 

Q.   I know you bogeyed 1 and 2, and I guess last week you said you tried to press a little bit on Saturday.   Do you feel yourself able to just keep it going?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, I had to kind of tell myself that after the first‑‑ actually after the second bogey.   I had to tell myself to kind of dial it back‑‑ not dial it back, but don't make a stupid mistake just because you made two bogeys.   I know I was going to make a couple more birdies or at least get a couple good looks at it, so just stayed patient.   I guess that's the main thing. 

Q.   Did you see the scoreboard after those bogeys?
DEREK FATHAUER:   No, no, I was in the trees.   (Laughter.)

Q.   Are you excited about the way you're playing?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, I've got another shot at it this week, and I'll try to improve on last week.

Q.   You've had a bunch of chances this year, but you haven't got a win yet.   You haven't won on this Tour, right? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   No.

Q.   Do you feel like there's any extra pressure on yourself that you would have because you haven't won?
DEREK FATHAUER:   No, no, I maybe put a little more pressure on myself last week, but I hopefully learned my lesson last week, and do a little better job this weekend, and see where it puts me.   I'll give it my best shot, and whether I win or finish whatever place, it doesn't matter.   I've kind of got it locked up next year anyway, but I still have a couple of goals to accomplish, and winning is one of them.

Q.   If that wasn't the case you probably wouldn't be up here so often, right? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT