NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2014
Derek Fathauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   8‑under when we add them all up.   Obviously, a big lead on a tough day.   Just talk about it. 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Hit quite a few fairways, and sort of playing to the live side of the pins and the safe sides, couple close, made a few putts and 8‑under.   I really didn't get in trouble at all today.   I think that was the key.

Q.   Do you think the key‑‑ what were the keys to your round, just keeping it on the fairways? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   All of the above.   If I did miss a fairway, I got it on the green and didn't really have to rely on my short game today.   Just hit a lot of greens, and what felt like a lot of fairways, but I'd have to look back to see.   But I drove it well and everything was firing to the pin today.

Q.   Derrick, you've had some leads here and played pretty well.   You played well of late? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, I've been playing well all year.   Just kind of sticking to my plan, and everything's kind of falling into place.   But still a lot of golf to play.   So I found that out last week.   No lead is big enough.   You've got to keep your head down and keep grinding.

Q.   Where are you in terms of status on TOUR right now? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   I don't know what my number is.   I finished 13th on the regular season, so I'm not sure how it looks in the playoffs.

Q.   You say you found out last week (Indiscernible) did you think you had a big enough lead? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   No, no.   Guys are trying to catch you.   It doesn't mean it's one good round, I've got to shoot three more good rounds out there and see where that puts me.   Kind of stick to what I've been doing all year, trying to stay calm, work on my breathing out there and see where it puts me at the end of the week.

Q.   It's among the best rounds that have been played.   Is it any combination of playing well, conditions also maybe a factor? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   The wind was blowing pretty good today.   I wouldn't say it was strong, but the wind was definitely a factor.   Of course, it seemed a little softer than it was in the practice round and the Pro‑Am, so maybe it was a little more gettable, but it's still one of the toughest courses we play all year, so I think it was a great round.

Q.   How do you think you build off last week in terms of that?   Is it breathing? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   More in the way I handled myself on the golf course, nothing to do with the golf swing or golf shots or reading putts.   It's how I conduct myself and handle myself and try to stay calm out there and not think too much about golf.   Just kind of enjoy my day and have a nice stroll around the golf course.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
DEREK FATHAUER:   I've been doing it all year, but under the pressure of ‑‑ it's either change or quit playing golf.   So I wasn't having any fun.   Golf has become a little more fun now.   It's still a stressful job, but if you can find a way to enjoy it a little bit, it makes it a lot better.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah.

Q.   After last year? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   At the very start of this year.   His name is John Denney down in Jupiter, Florida.

Q.   If I remember (Indiscernible)?
DEREK FATHAUER:   No, from Stuart, Florida, but I went to Louisville.

Q.   (Indiscernible).   Can you do feel good after a 63? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   I'm not going to get happy, I'm not going to get excited.   I'm going to try to do my job and get the heck out of here.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
DEREK FATHAUER:   Still have a lot of work to do.

Q.   Were you an anxious player or were you hard on yourself? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Little too hard on myself, yeah, pushed a little too hard on the golf course.   But I wasn't doing all the right things.   I wasn't practicing right.   I was eating well, but I wasn't eating properly.   My sleep habits were bad.   It was everything.   Just didn't have any structure in my life.   I had all that stuff in college, and right when I left college, it's slowly gotten worse and worse every year. 
So I had to look back at it and make a decision on what I was going to do.   If I was going to want to play golf, I needed to really look at all that stuff and improve and come up with a plan or find something else to do.   Because I got no enjoyment out of playing golf the last couple years, so I think it was a healthy life decision.   I had a couple people help me with it, and I'm not going to look back.

Q.   That's what I was going to ask you.   You came up with this plan all by yourself?   Did you have a little bit of an entourage? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, friends and family.

Q.   Did you call your old coach? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, at Louisville, yeah.

Q.   Did he give you some guidance? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, I reached out to a lot of people.   There were a couple people that were really helpful.   One being my mom and David Abel, I can't thank them enough.

Q.   Of the things that they told you, which one was probably the biggest change or shocked you the most? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   It was a lot.   Everything was shocking.   To look at it and see what I wasn't doing, it was an eye opener.   I just didn't realize that I was doing so many things wrong.   It was tough to get into the routine of working out and eating right, practicing right, getting to bed at a good time.   Trying to get eight hours of sleep every night is a lot tougher than I thought.   But once you get into that routine, it became easy.   I'll try to stick to it for as long as I can.

Q.   How long did it take you to come up with a plan and put it into play? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Probably a week, week and a half to kind of come up with it because it's what's best for me, not everybody else.   I'm not going to take the plan Tiger has or any of my friends out here.   I needed to do what I felt‑‑ anything I felt I needed to do to play my best golf I wrote it all down, and came up with a plan and contacted a few people and asked for their help.   I took a week, and then I think it was on Monday I just totally 180.   Went to the gym, went and got a lesson, went and saw this guy John Denney, just everything.   I just switched right away.   It was tough because it was different, but it's been easy now.

Q.   You said it was a Monday.   Do you remember the date? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Couple weeks after Q‑school, so after Q‑school.

Q.   In January? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   I think so, yeah.

Q.   What is your normal routine in a day now compared to what it would have been last year? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   At home and a golf tournament is different.   This morning I woke up, did some stretching when I woke up, floor stuff, took a shower, came here, ate breakfast, went and played.   That's pretty routine for everybody.   But it's what you do when you're at home on your off weeks and how you really try to improve when you're at home is huge. 
Like I hit the gym every morning at 7:00.   The days down at PGA National, 7 to 9:00, go home, make breakfast.   Go to the course, practice, do some putting practice, working every part of my game and then eat lunch and my day's pretty much over.   If I want to go play golf, go play golf or I can go fish, go hang out with friends. 
I get a lot more out of my days now instead of rolling out of bed, eat whatever for breakfast, cruise, hitting balls with no purpose.   When I look back at it, it made no sense.   I can't believe somebody hadn't told me that before.   But I feel like I've made a lot of good, solid improvements and I'm going to stick to it.

Q.   So you're getting up earlier now on your off weeks? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Oh, yeah, 6:00 o'clock.

Q.   Instead of? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   8 or 10:00, 11:00, whatever.   Yeah, yeah.

Q.   Discipline.   I didn't check where you are right now?
DEREK FATHAUER:   I don't know.   I don't know.   My caddie's gone.   20th or something, 26th, 19, maybe.

Q.   So you have a lot to do. 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Yeah, yeah, but you can always improve.

Q.   Is that the first time? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   No, one other time.

Q.   Six birdies today? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   No, nothing crazy.   I hit a lot of good golf shots today.   I was kind of hitting it where I was looking, so I almost didn't see the pins out there today.   I was kind of picking spots.   With the slopes on these greens, you kind of have to play it off the slopes and play away from the pin a little bit and let it kind of feed in there.   Just take your 30‑footer.

Q.   How much does confidence make it easier to play?   I mean, coming here without having the real pressure of earning your card?
DEREK FATHAUER:   This is still very important to me.   I'm treating all four of these tournaments as stages of Q‑school.   Either finish in the top whatever it used to be, I think it was 18 on every stage to move on to the next stage.   So I was kind of trying to play every week like first, second, third, final stage.   I'm just trying to keep my foot on the gas the last two weeks.   I have a couple goals I still want to accomplish this year, and I've got two more weeks to do it.

Q.   Is there one thing in particular that caused you to change things? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   I wasn't enjoying golf.   I wasn't having fun.   I was miserable.   I don't want to live my life like that.   I'd rather whatever, cut grass for a living and have fun at it or fish all day.

Q.   Were you at the point where you were thinking about what else you could do? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Oh, yeah, yeah.   I was almost set that I wasn't going to play and talking to some friends and family.   I had status on this Tour this year, so if I was going to give it a shot, I was going to give it a hundred percent.

Q.   What had you lined up? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   To do other?   I like to fish.   I don't know what I'm qualified to do, so I was actually asking a few people for help.   I didn't want to be in the golf business either.   So I don't need to worry about it anymore.   It's behind me.

Q.   Have you got your degree? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   I had a couple of classes to finish.   I went four years, and I had three more classes or something.   Maybe one more semester.

Q.   What would it have been in? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Sports administration.

Q.   Now you can manage your career? 
DEREK FATHAUER:   Try to (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT