U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2008
Derek Fathauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE FANUCCHI: We are here with Derek Fathauer, we'll start off with Derek give us an opening comment. You played 42 holes today winning both matches in extra holes, the first one 20 and the second in 22. How do you feel?   
 DEREK FATHAUER: Tired.   
 (Laughter.) That's it. Tired.   
 DAVE FANUCCHI: You, this -- let's get into this second match here, defeating Kevin Tway with a birdie on the par-4, the par-5, fourth hole, it looked on that hole if Kevin might have an advantage after the second shot, he was a little closer to the green than you. What club did you hit into the green and you made a nice birdie putt.   
 DEREK FATHAUER: I had 157. I hit 8-iron. I'm probably hitting it five to ten yards shorter right now, I just feel really really weak right now.  
 DAVE FANUCCHI: So you played for that in the shot.  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Yeah, and just made a good putt. I had a similar putt today and I just had a good read on it.   
 DAVE FANUCCHI: With the way the matches progressed did you think he was going to make that other one coming back?   
 DEREK FATHAUER: Definitely thought he was making it. I was getting ready to go to the next tee. So you can't count him out. I don't know if you saw it, if you were out there, but 3-up with four to go, he came back, you just cannot count him out. He's a great player.   
 DAVE FANUCCHI: You said earlier today your first round this morning against Uihlein was probably the toughest match you ever played in match play, then you come back this afternoon and go longer than that.   
 DEREK FATHAUER: It keeps getting tougher, yeah. But I guess that's how it goes.   
 DAVE FANUCCHI: It seems to be a good momentum builder going into these, you're in the quarterfinals now. Talk about how you feel about getting this far.   
 DEREK FATHAUER: I'm happy with where I'm at. I want to keep winning.   
 Don't have any expectations, I just go out and play. And tomorrow I'll be ready to play. I'm going to get some good rest tonight and eat a whole bunch and be ready to go tomorrow morning.   
  
  Q. You were obviously up, 3-up through 14, it looked like kind of losing grip of the match. Talk about that.   
 DEREK FATHAUER: I was swinging, I don't know what you would call it, wild, I guess. Not good. And it caught up to me.   
 You got to have your swing under control to be able to handle the pressure out there. And I hit a couple loose shots and definitely let him right back in it. But really just grinding and trying to hang in there through the playoff holes and was able to pull it out.   
  
  Q. Talk about your, I guess it would be your second shot on 16. You were over there in the rough. Were you just trying to -- you had the hybrid and --  
 DEREK FATHAUER: I did the same thing on 10, twice today. Two shots in a row with that hybrid. I don't know, I didn't really practice out of the rough in the practice rounds and they say those clubs are supposed to work out of the rough, so I just figured go ahead and hit it.   
 (Laughter.)   
  
  Q. On 18 you were over in the pine straw and then you hit a nice shot into the green. It looked at that point that you regained a little bit of momentum or maybe got a second life, because then you started hitting fairways in the playoff holes and everything. Did you feel like you had regained something?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: A little bit, yeah. I figured that I had given him enough and this is my last chance in amateur golf, so I need to give it my best. I kind of got a little too frustrated, I guess you would say, and once he won, when I went from 3-up to 2-up, I don't know, I kind of got frustrated, I felt like I was giving it away. And that got to me a little bit.   
 And my caddie is great and kept me in it all day, if it wasn't for her, I be still laying on the course out there somewhere.  
  
  Q. After 17 she looked a little frustrated. Were you guys having a discussion?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Well she, yeah, I don't know, that's the way she gets to me and like gets her point across. She dropped the bag right there.   
  
  Q. And her name is?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Amanda Henry.   
  
  Q. Is she your girlfriend or would people speculate about that?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Yeah, you could say that. Yeah.   
 DAVE FANUCCHI: A fellow golfer at Louisville, right?   
 DEREK FATHAUER: Yeah.  
 DAVE FANUCCHI: What year is she?   
 DEREK FATHAUER: She will be a senior.   
  
  Q. You mentioned maybe perhaps being your last amateur event and I was wondering if either during today's afternoon match or even when you played Peter in the playoff this morning whether that weighs on you, the fact thinking about, hey, if it ends today, it could really be the end; and does that play at all into how you've been playing?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Coming down the stretch, yeah. When I tee off on the first hole I don't think about it. But coming down the stretch it really just gets me to grind and just like buckle down and give it my best.  
  
  Q. On 18 this morning with Peter you hit that one putt and it went by, I'm sure you gave yourself a lot of talking to there.   
 DEREK FATHAUER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. At that point then is it going through your head at all, oh, my gosh, I could be done?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: I was trying to make that putt and I hit it right through the break. But I wasn't thinking about it when I hit the first putt, but on the second putt, it was definitely, I was definitely thinking this could be my last chance, so.   
  
  Q. Does it motivate you?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: It definitely motivates me, yeah.  
  
  Q. You were, it looks like you were 4-under through 11 holes to go 3-up, did you feel like you were in control of your game at that point?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Somewhat, yeah. I hit -- I made a couple good putts and hit some good shots, so I was still hitting the driver a little, the driver was iffy, but other than that it was pretty solid.   
  
  Q. Just talk about your putting in this last round that you played, I mean even the putts that you missed seemed like you putped them where you wanted to, the putt on 1 looked like you came pretty close to making that. That was a nice putt. I mean it seemed like if anything else wasn't going you could always rely on your putting.   
 DEREK FATHAUER: Yeah, well throughout ever since I started playing I thought I'm a pretty good putter and today I was a little down on myself, but my caddie on every hole was, she was just saying, you're a good putter, just roll this up there and if it goes in, it goes in. So she was a lot of help for that part of it today.   
  
  Q. And also talk about Tway, playing with somebody that he just seemed to be so consistent off the tee, both length wise and just splitting the middle of the fairways. And I know you guys are comparable in length, but playing there and then you hitting great shots and him hitting inside late in the match, I mean what were you feeling there?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: I don't know, he's definitely a great player, and you got to take advantage of good drives out here, so if I get in the fairway, you can't be missing greens and he's solid tee to green, putting, everything. So it was a great match today.   
  
  Q. Just one more, talk about the last putt.   
 DEREK FATHAUER: I had a longer putt than that earlier today, but on a similar line. And just had a pretty good read on it, so I had nothing to lose, just give it a run.  
  
  Q. Seems like you hit it pretty firm. I mean, you were going for it.   
 DEREK FATHAUER: It was uphill, it wasn't, it really wasn't going too fast, it would have gone a foot or two past, so I had a perfect putt there.  
  
  Q. How many feet was it?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: 20 feet?   
 DAVE FANUCCHI: 20, 22 feet.  
  
  Q. And then on the second playoff hole which you birdied?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: That was 10, 12 feet. Something like that.   
 DAVE FANUCCHI: Were you thinking that was a must make?   
 DEREK FATHAUER: Yes, definitely.  
 DAVE FANUCCHI: Because Kevin was inside of you.  
 DEREK FATHAUER: You just have to think he's going to make it, so I took a little longer on the read there, because it was a little tricky on the side of the hill, but I hit a great putt there too.   
  
  Q. It looked like you had 185 into that green? Over there in the left rough?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Yeah, it was like 185.  
  
  Q. You hit a 7-iron?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Yeah, 7-iron.  
  
  Q. Did you like it?  
 DEREK FATHAUER: Hit it perfect.   
 DAVE FANUCCHI: It looked like a good lie, a decent lie in the rough.  
 DEREK FATHAUER: It was way below my feet, but it was a good lie from the rough.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT