GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 26, 2007
Derek Fathauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DEREK FATHAUER:  I'd say I choked.  They might say it was the first time being there. 
 I had it going on the front nine today.  Made a bunch of birdies, just never got back on track, so. 

 Q.  What did you learn about yourself this week? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  Well, I know what I need to work on.  I know I'm pretty good at hanging in there when it's not going good.  I've got a lot of stuff to work on. 

 Q.  Did this experience meet your expectations? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  Yeah, even more.  Just meeting these guys, they're so nice.  I couldn't ask for more. 

 Q.  Did you ever catch yourself thinking about how your brother was doing on the golf course? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  Not really, no.  Once we're done, I'll ask him how he played, but not while I'm out there. 

 Q.  Talk about where you go from here your long-term plans? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  We'll wait and see how it goes.  Hopefully I get a couple more invitations and a little more used to playing out here.  But we'll see. 

 Q.  You got it going there, and you were three and four shots inside the cut? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  I wasn't really thinking about the cut.  Just trying to keep it going.  I'm just sorry I didn't keep it going. 

 Q.  How disappointing is it to be so close? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  Well, it's disappointing, but it's also first time here (Indiscernible). 
 I guess I did good for the first time. 

 Q.  Watching the leaderboards today? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  After I was like on the last few holes I looked at it.  Because I was like 1 over with 3 to go, so I was just kind of curious.  But, if I was playing good, I probably wouldn't have been looking at it.  I was just looking around. 

 Q.  Did you think you made that block on 17? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  I got a good lie over there.  But I didn't really -- I was pretty disappointed about the shot.  But, I don't know.  I just hit it and just tried to get it up there.  And it happened to workout, so. 

 Q.  I know it's still minutes after you finished your round, but you look back at this week, the couple of days, what do you think you'll remember the most? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  All the people I met.  I didn't meet all the guys, but the guys that I did meet were like really nice.  Wished me the best, so it was great being here. 

 Q.  Did you feel little subtle differences between college golf and this? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  There is no comparison.  This is where it's at.  These guys are good.  I guess that's what they say, right? 

 Q.  Being able to be this close to making the cut, I know you're disappointed, but does it give you more confidence in your game that you can hold your own out here? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  Well, I'm hitting it good.  I'm making the play out here.  I was a little tighter around the last few holes, so. 
 When I'm swinging good, I can do well.  But as you saw, crummy finish. 

 Q.  Do you have any plans for the rest of the weekend?  When are you guys leaving? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  Depends on what our coach says.  If he lets us hang out, we'll stay for the weekend.  But if he wants us to come home tomorrow.  We have Greensboro tournament on Monday. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible)? 
 DEREK FATHAUER:  I didn't play well.  Maybe tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT