GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 24, 2007
Derek Fathauer
Daryl Fathauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE:  Derek and Daryl, thanks for joining us.  We appreciate the time to spend a few minutes with you.  Just a couple opening comments from you guys on the excitement and enthusiasm of being here this week.  Either one of you take it first. 
 FATHAUER:  We're pretty excited about playing, especially in our hometown and all our family and friends can come out and watch us. 
 We're thankful for getting the exemption from the Ginn Company and for everyone that's putting on this tournament.  So far it's been a lot fun, so thanks for having us. 
 FATHAUER:  It has been a lot of fun.  I've seen all the pros that I've always looked up to out on the -- I haven't talked to any of them, but you see them walking around out there and it's pretty cool.  And being in our hometown is just a lot of fun. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Maybe jsut touch on the games.  How are your games as you're coming into the week? 
 FATHAUER:  Pretty good.  We were just at Vanderbilt's tournament in Nashville.  It got rained out, but both of us played pretty well on the holes we got to play.  We're feeling pretty good about it.  A little bit nervous, but it should be fun. 
 FATHAUER:  Just a little nervous, and we'll see how it goes with all the people watching us and see the course how it's meant to be played.  We played a practice round from the forward tees and stuff like that a couple weeks ago, but it'll be exciting to see how everything works out. 
 DOUG MILNE:  You mentioned that you hadn't talked to any of the guys yet.  Have you talked to any of the players or anybody in particular that you're kind of looking up to? 
 FATHAUER:  A few of them.  They said hi.  One of them introduced himself to us on the range, which was pretty nice. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Who was that?  Do you remember? 
 FATHAUER:  Mathias Gronberg.  He's a nice guy. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Okay.  We'll up open it up for a few questions. 

 Q.  Just talk about your expectations for this week course-wise? 
 FATHAUER:  I would say we're just here to enjoy it and make the best of it.  And whether we make the cut or not, just not really looking at that.  Just play our best and see where that gets us. 
 FATHAUER:  Same here. 

 Q.  Daryl, this has been in the works now for a while.  Now that it's finally here, significantly more nervous than you typically are before a tournament?  Has it not really set in yet?  Or has it been like steady build as far as the butterflies since you first learned that this was going to happen for you guys? 
 DARYL FATHAUER:  Well, not too nervous on the range hitting with those guys.  I mean, just think of it as any other day of golf that you go out there.  I don't know how it's going to be playing in the tournament, you know, playing with the pros and having a gallery watching you. 
 But, I mean, we both -- both of us have played in some pretty big tournaments so we've seen a little bit of what it's like.  We have been to a few TOUR events before, so we kind of have a feel for what it's going to be like. 

 Q.  You talked about that practice round you played a few weeks back.  What were your first impressions of the course back then?  When you first got out there what did you think of it?  How did it set up for your game? 
 FATHAUER:  It played really long because it was wet.  I heard it's dried out and the greens have firmed up, so it's going to be totally different than the practice round.  So we'll see today. 

 Q.  Which tees will you guys play from today? 
 FATHAUER:  We'll play the back tees.  Our Pro-Am partner wants us to play the member's tees, but we're going to play the back tees. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT