CIMB CLASSIC
October 20, 2016
Derek Fathauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on the day?  
DEREK FATHAUER: Played really solid.   Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and no bogeys.  So eight birdies, no bogeys, and it was a great day.   
 Q.  What is your strategy for the next day?  
DEREK FATHAUER: Try to keep doing the same thing.  Playing somewhat conservative, not hitting a lot of drivers.  I didn't play a practice round, so I'm just trying to keep the ball in play.   
 Q.  What kind of challenge was the weather?  
DEREK FATHAUER: I just need to drink and stay hydrated.  I wasn't feeling too good towards the end of the round.   It's getting hot out there.  I don't think I drank enough water.  Stay hydrated and keep the ball in the fairway.   
 Q.  How about your competitors, what do you feel about them?  
DEREK FATHAUER: They were great.  Nice guys.  A lot of fun to play with.   
 Q.  Eight birdies and no dropped shots today, how do you feel about your performance?  
DEREK FATHAUER: I feel great.  I didn't play a practice round.  This is my first time here, and I thought I did really well out there.  To not make a bogey was pretty good.   
 Q.  And what were the conditions like for you?  
DEREK FATHAUER: Pretty benign.  Not a lot of wind.  Everything's soft.  The greens are good.  Surprised there's not a whole lot of 8-unders, 7-unders.  It was playing pretty easy out there.   
 Q.  Did you find the weather, was it a big factor for you today?  
DEREK FATHAUER: I'm from South Florida, so it's about as hot there.  I do need to drink some more water.  I probably only had two or three waters all day, so I'm going to go chug a few.   
 Q.  You're well placed on the leaderboard.  What's the game plan now moving forward?  
DEREK FATHAUER: Just keep playing the way I've been playing.  I think I'm playing a little more conservative than most guys.  I'm not hitting driver that much.  Seemed to work today and I'll kind of stick to my guns and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT