BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2005
Thomas Gardner
Jimmy McKinney
Quin Snyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH QUIN SNYDER:  I thought we really just played great defense in the first half and were able to build the lead, particularly again coming out the second half our execution, the beginning, was just terrific.  We were sharing the ball.  Sometimes when you got a lead like that early you know there's going to be a run.  We were not able to extend that lead.  I thought we let up a little bit with our defense, but they just made an adjustment, spread the floor and started driving us.  I think a lot of credit goes to Nebraska.  Our team has proven that we can be pretty sound defensively and I didn't think -- it wasn't so much of anything, we just stopped playing, Nebraska started making plays.  And they were really getting to the foul line and that made the game longer.  Which was obviously to their benefit.  I think it was a heck of a win for our team, and really in a nutshell a little bit of kind of what these guys have been through and their ability to persevere throughout a game. 

JIMMY MCKINNEY:  There was a play, an elbow to Linas, I picked up my dribble which I shouldn't done and I telegraphed the pass, he picked it off.  I was frustrated at the moment but I had to get over and go back on defense and make sure they don't score.

Q.  Thomas, maybe you can talk about the first half and how you guys got out to a big lead; what was working for you guys? 

THOMAS GARDNER:  Just execution.  We was playing together as a team, sharing the ball and we was able to jump on them early.  I think when we got off to a good start it's really helpful for our team.

Q.  Jimmy, can you talk about the play of Linas, because he had a big game for you guys?

JIMMY MCKINNEY:  Yeah, we thought that Linas was getting to the line.  He was doing things that really helped our team and for a moment they was denying him, making it hard for him getting the ball but we stayed patient, giving him the ball to make him successful.  He was given the ball, he was making his free throws, drawing fouls.  That was the most important thing for our game plan today.

Q.  Can both of you players talk about playing Oklahoma now? 

THOMAS GARDNER:  It's going to be a tough game.  We were fortunate to beat them earlier in the season at home but there's a reason why they are number one in their league right now.  They will be ready to come out and fight.  We have got to prepare for them and go out and execute our game plan. 

JIMMY MCKINNEY:  I think we just got to be able to, like Thomas said, execute our game plan.  We have got to make sure that we start on defense, if we start defense, make it tough for them, I think we will be all right.  Most important we got to rebound the ball, I think that's what made us come out with a victory today.  We rebounded the ball well in crucial situations, so we know they are going to crash the boards and go hard to the boards so we have got to make sure we rebound and make it tough for them on the defensive end. 


Q.  Quinn, I think Jimmy said it best, " He telegraphed that pass to Kleiza."  Was he so focused in on that's what he did, because the whole arena knew where that pass was going?

COACH QUIN SNYDER: Yeah, the whole arena, we were trying to get the ball to Linas.  That's where the ball needed to go.  I think we did -- I thought we did a really good job of doing that for most of the night.  If Jimmy wouldn't have picked up his dribble, the back end of the play would have just been an on-ball screen; where Linas would have just screened his man and he could have turned the corner.  Like you said, he picked his dribble up and Linas was still trying to post the guy.  It was one play, you know, that was one play, and obviously it was a really big play.  I think what I take from it about our guys is that we were able to turn around and get stops.  I think at a point during the year there would have been enough frustration that it would have derailed us defensively and might have given something up right away.  We were able to get back in transition and defend.  So in spite of the lack of execution on that given play, I was pleased with how we responded to the mistake.

Q.  Following up Kleiza, it looked like Nebraska throughout the first half was saying there's no way they are going to let Kleiza beat them again.  What changed that, your ability to let him beat them again?

COACH QUIN SNYDER: I don't think they -- I think they were still trying to not let him get touches.  We have run a lot of set plays for him at various times during the year.  Lately we have been trying to open the floor more because people will help off other players so much and our spacing is really crucial to getting him the ball.  I think the biggest thing that happened.  I actually told Linas after the game that he didn't show any frustration.  In fact, at the end of the first half he passed up like a 16-footer to dropped the ball down to Kevin for a layup.  Those are the kind of things that I think our team is doing right now that I really like.  And that I think have made us a better club.  When you play that well unselfishly, eventually Linas does get touches.  He was getting other guys involved and eventually his game came around and he had opportunities.  But I think it was precisely because he was patient and our guys did a really good job of continuing to try to work to get it to him.

Q.  You talked a lot about rebounding coming into this game.  You out-rebounded them in the offensive rebounds.  Talk about beating them on the boards.

COACH QUIN SNYDER: The guy that, early, was all over the offensive glass was Kevin and then I thought Jason Conley was terrific with some big offensive rebounds late.  When you are having a hard time scoring which we have had at times this year, rebounding becomes even more important.  I thought our defensive rebounding was kind of the last thing with our defense that we needed to shore up.  There have been sometimes we have guarded well and haven't finished possessions, and we knew how much Nebraska relied on the offensive glass for offense.  And it was a really important part of our game plan even if we had to face guard them to keep those guys out of there.  They still got a few, but I think they really had to work for them.

Q.  Earlier in his career, Linas, would he have pouted in the situation like he did in the first half?

COACH QUIN SNYDER: Linas?  Pout?

Q.  Yes.

COACH QUIN SNYDER: He has been great.  I mean, I think the fact that I am teasing him about it with you guys is indicative of some of the maturity that he's developed.  I don't think Linas ever really pouted as much as he just got mad, he's just an emotional guy.  That also what makes him a heck of a player.  He's just learned how to use that, you know, to help him and not let it hurt him.  That you know, I told him a few weeks ago I wanted him to lead us in assists in rebounds.  He hasn't quite led us in assists, but you know, I think he's thinking more along that line and he's just a much more efficient player when he's patient like that and playing with a lot of poise. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT