AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v TWINS
October 6, 2010
Carl Pavano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Okay, we are going to get started in the interview room. Carl Pavano is here. 

 Q. Carl, what, if anything, can you take from the experience of facing the Yankees last year in the postseason? 
 CARL PAVANO: You know, when I reflected on the games, obviously I have done quite a few times, a lot of the losses were late in the game. I mean it was all late-inning heroics. We pitched well. It came down to, you know, the stronger team in the end won. So I think if we stay consistent what we did this year as a team as far as making plays, making pitches, sticking together as a team, I think it is the recipe for success this year. 

 Q. What can you take out of your start against the Yankees? I should have been more specific. 
 CARL PAVANO: Don't give up any homers. (Laughter) I was aggressive. I didn't walk anybody. I went seven innings and got beat on two pitches late in the game. And, you know, sometimes you lose those games. We ended up losing what, 3-0. And I feel like if I go out there and give that same effort, I think we will have a good chance to win that ballgame. 

 Q. Carl, I wonder what you've seen from Francisco and his development through this year and emerging as a Game 1 kind of guy. And can you talk a little bit about what you have seen from him kind of grow into that role. 
 CARL PAVANO: He is dominant. He has been dominant all year. He struck out over 200 guys this year. He kept his walks down. He keeps the ball in the park. And with our defense, he keeps the ball on the ground, too. So that's great. 
 And, you know, he got hit with the injury bug a little bit, like all of us do sometimes, and he has come back to his form. So I am excited to see him go out there and pitch this game. 

 Q. Carl, when you go into a postseason start, how do you treat it? You've now had postseason starts for several teams, several years, how do you treat it? 
 CARL PAVANO: As cliche as it is, it is still another start. I already had 32 this year. If I was going to change something, I don't think it does me or my team any justice. I already have proven what makes me successful to myself and what routine and mindset I need to get into to be successful and I established that throughout the year. I will just carry it over into tomorrow. 

 Q. Carl, that being said, win or lose tonight, if you're down or you're up tomorrow, does that change anything for you, even mentally? 
 CARL PAVANO: No. I mean, I pitched a lot of games after wins. I pitched a lot of games after losses. And, you know, last year we were down 0-2 and I thought I went out there and put up a good effort. My first time in the playoffs with the Marlins we were down 2-1 to the Cubs and I got a start, and we ended up beating them and then we were down, I want to say, 2-1 to the Yankees in the World Series round and I ended up going eight innings. So that's not something I'm worried about. 

 Q. Carl, you pitched the last playoff game at the Metrodome and now you are starting the first playoff game at Target Field. Do you take anything out of that? 
 CARL PAVANO: Actually it is the second one, since Frankie is starting tonight, the first game. But I did start the first game of the season if that's what you meant. But that's always exciting obviously. Opening up this new stadium this year and being able to get into the playoffs as a team. It is a team accomplishment and it is great for the city and we're looking forward to this. 

 Q. Carl, how does this ballpark play? Is it a pitcher's park? I mean, how does it play? 
 CARL PAVANO: It definitely plays fair. You know, in the gaps and to center it plays a little bigger than most fields. But down the line the ball travels. You have to hit it a long way to get it out of center field. I haven't seen many homers to center. The boppers like Thome and Morneau make this field look pretty small. But I don't know how it will be with the colder weather, if it will travel. It didn't travel much in April and it was around this temperature. And as it got warm it really didn't seem like it changed that much. 
 So I expect it to play like it has been all year. It definitely plays bigger in the alleys and center field. 

 Q. Carl, can you talk about your experience pitching against the Yankees in that World Series game in 2003? What was your mindset head? Were there nerves more than usually? Talk about your nerves. 
 CARL PAVANO: I was new to it all. There are always nerves and excitement. I definitely have confidence in myself, but I get worked up on the day I pitch and I have a lot of energy and I use it to my advantage. It was do or die for us; we have to go out and win. We knew we were facing Clemens and possibly his last start, there was a lot of stuff that went along with that. But we got there on character and sticking together as a team and doing the little things and pitching. And we knew if we continued doing that, that that would take care of our challenge of that game. And ended up winning that game and going on to win the World Series after that. 

 Q. Carl, if you can have a do-over in terms of your time in New York, what would you do differently? 
 CARL PAVANO: It's so far in the past, there are no do-overs. You learn from your mistakes and you move on. You know, I really don't look back on it as a bad thing. I mean, I'm in a good position now, that's all that really matters. 

 Q. Carl, your name still stirs a lot of emotions among Yankee fans. I'm sure you knew that when you get introduced to the crowd last year. What kind of emotions do you feel when you get to pitch against the Yankees? Is there any sort of, you know, revenge factors on your mind? 
 CARL PAVANO: No, not at all. I'm a professional. I have been doing this awhile. My job is, I have a Twins uniform on and my job is to go out and pitch. I have been doing it all season. Our staff is strong all season and I feel I need to keep doing what have I been doing all year. I will be in a good place. 

 Q. You have been asked about some of the bad things that happened when were you in New York, but is there anything good that you felt like came out of that that maybe helped you get to the point where you are now? 
 CARL PAVANO: You know, that's a good question actually. There wasn't much good actually that went on. (Laughing) I got to start Opening Day one year due to some injuries to the staff, that was exciting. I ended up having an elbow surgery that year, but I did get to start Opening Day. And I did get to put on a Yankees uniform, which as a kid that is something I dreamed about. So all that was definitely fun. But, you know, it is definitely overshadowed by some of the things that went on that I didn't enjoy as far as injuries and stuff. But like I said, that's all in the past, so what are you going to do? 
 THE MODERATOR: Okay, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT