ORLANDO CITY SC MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 13, 2016
Bobby Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Red Bulls - 2
Orlando - 0
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Orlando city head coach Bobby Murphy.
COACH MURPHY: I think we knew it would be difficult coming here.  It's a tough place to come and play.  They're very good at what they do.  I think Jesse has them well prepared and well drilled.
We knew what to expect.  I think we had a plan coming into it.  I think the plan in a lot of ways worked.  I think when we go back and look at it, it's the fine margins again that are costing us.  We spent a lot of time the last three days looking at their set pieces.  They're very unpredictable set pieces.  They have a whole bunch of them.
We also talked about the second phase of the set piece, the initial clearance, then dealing with the second one.  That's where the first goal came from, was people switching off.
The second one, Felipe took it well.  It's set pieces again.  I think they competed hard enough and had some good moments that they were in the game.  I'm not saying the result was unfair, but I think when we look back we'll be disappointed with a couple just moments.  We talk about it all the time.  The game is made up of moments, and moments are important.  You have to deal with that moment as it comes, then move on to the next one.
I think that will do.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Bobby, already lacking the personnel on your attacking midfield (indiscernible).
COACH MURPHY: We'll just do the best we can.  We'll go back and look at what we have available to us.  We may have to tweak the shape a little bit.  I think everything's really fresh right now.  I think the best thing for us to do is go back, reevaluate where we're at.  H is done as well.
I think it's one of these things tonight, I just told them in the locker room, I think the way they responded shows that they're a group that's in it together.  They didn't give up on each other.  They pulled together, had fight.
If Cyle takes that chance at the end with 15 minutes left to go, who knows what happens.  But I think we'll just have to evaluate and do the best we can.
Q. (No microphone.)
COACH MURPHY: I think it's a knee.  I don't know how bad.
Joe, he's fine.  He's tough.
Q. Was the game plan to try to absorb the press and go for a counter?
COACH MURPHY: The plan was this:  was to not give them opportunities to press right away.  If you notice, we went long with a lot of stuff.  We put Carlos out there.  They were probably expecting Cyle who is a post-up guy.  Cyle could stretch them.  We saw flashes of that a little bit.  It sort of goes against who we are.  At the same time down some personnel, being on the road, we didn't want to make it easy for Red Bull.
We thought as the game went on, if we could keep ourselves in it, because of the short turnaround time for them, the game time would open up.  It did.  The problem was we were down two-nil when it opened up.
Full credit to them.  The game is about taking chances.  They took them.  Fair play.
Q. Minus seven goal differential.  How worried about the offensive production of your team are you right now?
COACH MURPHY: I think for sure it's a concern.  I mean, we're down some bodies.  We miss Ricky.  He's a tremendous help not only as a leader, but everybody knows what he can do as a player.
I think what I'll take away from this, I get accused of being the optimist guy, we didn't give up a goal in the run of play.  The two goals came off set pieces.  In the run of play, I thought we dealt with them pretty well, and they've got some weapons.
The goals, yeah, but it's not like we got tons of creative players flying around.  We just got to do the best we can.
Q. Players had a pretty public confrontation with fans last week.  How have you been keeping them focused and upbeat?
COACH MURPHY: I think you can't underestimate how badly they want to do well.  They want to do well.  They work hard to do well.  They are bitterly disappointed in that locker room right now.
There's an old saying:  You make your own luck.  People say 'unlucky' in soccer all the time.  You make your own luck.  I think we have to go out, keep going, find a way to make our own luck, and things can turn.
I don't think anyone in there is giving up.  I sure haven't given up.  I think with the thing last week with the fans, I didn't see it.  I have kids who have Twitter, a new thing called Twitter apparently.  They keep me up to date on things that happen in the world.
I think what you see there is a symptomatic frustration that's being shared by everybody throughout the club in terms of getting the results.  It's down to us to try to stem the tide and get something going our direction.
Q. How tough has this stretch been for you?
COACH MURPHY: I think they're a brave group and they'll put on a brave face.  I think if you look back over the last month or so, there's been a lot of emotions flying around the club.  I don't think you can underestimate with the tragedy that happened, the sadness that was in the group, what they tried to do to help bring the community some peace.  They felt a real responsibility for that.  That took a toll on everyone.
I said it in Orlando.  You lose Adrian Winter, who is a great guy, a great player.  It wasn't because he wanted to leave.  He just did what was best for his family.  You can't fault a guy for doing that.  But you lose him on the field, you lose him off the field, in the training ground.
My heart breaks for them a little bit, the guys.  I'm old.  I know the sun will come up tomorrow, I know things will turn around.  But I feel for them because they do give what they have.  Sometimes it's not good enough, and sometimes that's the way the world works.
But it's no excuse to put your head down and mope.  You have to stick out your chest, trod the road to our happy destiny.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.
COACH MURPHY: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT