KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2020
Mirim Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We are back here with Mirim Lee, Rolex Rankings No. 22.  Mirim is competing in her seventh KPMG Women's PGA Championship, never missed the cut with three top-10 finishes, making her sixth start of the 2020 season with a big win a few weeks ago at the major championship the ANA Inspiration.  Mirim, when you won the ANA Inspiration, what was the response in Korea from your family, from your fans to your big major win?
MIRIM LEE:   They sent a lot of words of happiness, and as much as they supported me, they also encouraged me, and as much as I played well, they also supported me that well.
THE MODERATOR:   Now that we're at the next major, how are you going to use that support and that confidence you get from your major win as you play here at Aronimink?
MIRIM LEE:   As I mentioned before at the ANA Inspiration, there are some things that I'm working on and I'm still continuing to work on them, so I'll just keep those in mind as I play, and I think I'll play thinking of those things in mind.  This week will definitely be still me trying to work on those things.
THE MODERATOR:   Can you tell us what those things you're working on are and how you're practicing them?
MIRIM LEE:   A lot has improved since then, and I've been working hard enough where a lot has improved, particularly my long game and my downswing.  I'm still trying to work on the follow-through.
THE MODERATOR:   We're here at the KPMG now.  We should have been here in June; we're here in October.  Have you played the course yet, and what are your thoughts on Aronimink and its challenge?
MIRIM LEE:   The course seems to be playing a little longer than years prior, and I think for that reason, I don't know if I'll be able to see a lot of birdies, but players play so well that I'm sure I'll have to look forward to having birdies.  Having said that, the course does seem to be playing a lot longer, so I think I'm going to have to focus on my long irons and my long game.  Yes, I remember in the years prior that the weather was a lot hotter, so the air does feel crisp, so that just feels a little different.
THE MODERATOR:   Do you prefer the hot weather or do you like this fall weather?
MIRIM LEE:   Really it doesn't matter to me.
THE MODERATOR:   This tournament uses the phrase "inspire greatness."  How do you see yourself as inspiring a next generation of golfers?
MIRIM LEE:   It's kind of a difficult question.  It would be nice to show the kids players playing really well and working hard and showing that working hard achieves the results that you'd like.  When I'm out there playing, I'd like to play keeping that in mind, that kids who see a lot of hard work can see good results.
THE MODERATOR:   Who inspires you?  It could be golfers, not golfers; who do you get your inspiration from?
MIRIM LEE:   My parents.
Q. What do your parents do?
MIRIM LEE:   Right now they're not working, but they've always supported me.
Q. How did you start golf?
MIRIM LEE:   My father really enjoys playing the sport of golf, and so with my dad, I naturally went to the practice facilities with him, and that's how I got into the sport just naturally.
THE MODERATOR:   You inspired us with your win at ANA.  Good luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT