REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 27, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
Shanshan Feng
Mirim Lee
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(Through translation.)
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much.  Ariya Jutanugarn.  You're from Thailand.
Do you know the chairman of the Reignwood Group?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Dr. Chanchai.
THE MODERATOR: What do you think of the Jack Nicklaus golf course Reignwood Pine Valley?  Comfortable using driver for the tee shot?  As far as I know many reporters say you seldom or rare bring your driver in your bag or you bring but never use it.  Do you bring your driver in your bag?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I try to bring my driver this week.  Depend on the wind also because I'm not very likely to hit driver when it's windy.  So hope there is no wind.
THE MODERATOR: Let's take a look at your season. (Indiscernible) including five titles.  You win again two weeks in a row and three weeks in a row.
Yeah, and you win a lot.  You win a lot of titles this year LPGA Tour.  Are you happy with the win?  What's a way to win?  If you win the game two weeks in a row, three weeks in a row, how are you going to win the game this week?  Are you happy with winning?
Let's talk about your good performance.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Okay.  Yeah, I'm really happy, especially this year because I feel like I really want to win my first LPGA this year and I really want to win a major, so I did again.  I feel like I actually make two goal this year.
THE MODERATOR: Question for Brooke Henderson.  Youngest winner in the house.  What do you think the strongest part of the game and what will you take from that to deal with Jack Nicklaus golf course?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, definitely the best part of my game is long game.  Something that I've really worked hard over the last couple years on.  So hitting fairways and hitting greens.
Just like every course, I think this week it'll be really important to hit fairways and greens and to give yourself lots of opportunities to make birdies - especially if the wind is up like this.  Be a little bit extra that you need to make sure you hit good shots.
Q. This golf course is significantly different course to what you have played in the past, plus you have the super long travel day from Canada to China to get here.  What's the biggest challenge making the transition in the culture?  Where have been all day long?
BROOKE HENDERSON: We flew from Toronto Canada yesterday to Beijing.  We arrived at 4:30 p.m., so I haven't been here a long time.  I think the time change is definitely something that will take a little bit of getting used to over the next couple days.
Hopefully by Thursday be all settled in.  I think it's really cool being here in China and experiencing the culture and the different food and the language as well.  I think it's an amazing experience and it's a really cool place right here so I'm just going to enjoy the week.
THE MODERATOR: Last question for Brooke:  All the fans from Canada that maybe come here this weekend, are you looking forward to see your compatriots in Beijing?  Any Canadian sports fans come to support you?  How and what will you reply for the appreciation for your Canadian golf fans if they really come and cheer for you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I would love it if there are some Canadian fans.  You know, they tend to show up everywhere holding the Canadian flag, which is it's amazing.  Definitely always enjoy playing in front of huge crowds, and hopefully make some new fans and new people that are going to watch me and continue to watch me over the next few years here in China.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much, Brooke Henderson.
MIRIM LEE: It was my second LPGA Tour and I really enjoyed the game, so I think that was one of the main reasons why I was able to have such good results in the 2014 Reignwood Classic.
Q. A question for Brooke Henderson.  Look at your resume.  Spectacular finishes.  Three time LPGA winner and play Olympic Games.  Looking back about one year ago you were rookie on LPGA Tour and time goes fast.  Incredible journey.  What has this year been like for you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: The last 18 months since I turned pro have been really surreal.  It's been a dream come true.  I turned pro the day I graduated from high school and I didn't have any tour to play on or any status.
Just kind of worked my way up winning my first LPGA event when I was 17 and gaining membership on the tour.  Since then, just building tons of confidence and being able to move my world ranking to way over 200 in the world to No.4 right now.
It's been an amazing journey and incredible ride.  I'm looking forward to playing here this week and the rest of the season, and looking forward to next year, too.
Q. (In Chinese. )
MIRIM LEE: So up until the KPMG tournament my results weren't as good, but because after the KPMG tournament I think my results are coming back.
And since I was able to take a really good rest last week I think I'm in a good position to gain really good results this tournament.
Q. Question to Ariya.  We talk about rivalry between you and Lydia Ko, very young champions on the LPGA Tour.  How cool to be the top three players in the top rankings in the world right now?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's really cool for me, especially this year.  I think the most important for me is I know how to have fun and enjoy.  So I think that's the most important.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT