KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2017
Mirim Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're happy to be joined in the media center by 2017 Kia Classic champion, Mirim Lee.   
Mirim, how does it feel to be a winner on the LPGA Tour again?   
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  It's been a long time to be winner of the tournament, so I kind of nervous before I start of game.  But I try to focus and then gives me good result.   
THE MODERATOR: What did you specifically like about this course and how it fit your game?  You won by such a large margin.   
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  When I practiced this course I think tee shot was most important thing, so I focused on good tee shot so that makes this good result.   
THE MODERATOR: Open up for questions.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  By the turn, you were ahead by five strokes.  What was going through your mind at that time?  
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  On front nine I had 5-under and then I was keep thinking about myself.  It is not just against the other competitor.  I want to think about this game is just for myself, against myself.   
I just try to concentrate harder and harder.   
 Q.  You tied the course record, the tournament record, I should say, the overall tournament record.  How does it feel to have tied that record?  
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  I didn't know it was course record.  It's very (indiscernible), but I just happy to win this game.   
 Q.  So on 18, how long was your -- your final tap-in putt was like six inches.  How long was your first putt on 18?  
MIRIM LEE: It's 19 yard.  Yeah, 18, 19.   
 Q.  Did you know that you had to get down in two to still tie the course record, you had to 2-putt to tie the tournament record?  
MIRIM LEE: I didn't know about.   
 Q.  How do you like putting on these greens, the poana greens?  You like putting here?  
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  This type of green is not my favorite.  Then the green condition is always different in the morning and in the afternoon it's different, so it was pretty hard.   
 Q.  What does this do for your confidence going into ANA Inspiration?  
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  I think I did not hit it good on back nine.  Just today and tomorrow I will take good rest and then just prepare like any other game.   
So maybe that help me get another good result.   
 Q.  A follow up to that.  What does the course at ANA mean to you and the tournament itself as far as being the first major of the year?  Some of the women call it the LPGA Masters.  What would it mean to be able to jump into Poppy's Pond?  
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  Especially it's first major it will be great to be the champion, but I don't want to keep myself hard, push myself hard, so I just want to prepare as usual.   
Makes me feel better and more focused on the game.   
 Q.  Two years ago you had the 54-hole lead and Cristie Kerr passed you in the final round to win.  Did you think back to that at all today?  You had a lead going into the final round.  Did you think at all about what happened two years ago?  
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  At that time I did not think I loser, I just thought I didn't play very well at that time.   
So today I just try to not think about it.   
 Q.  What was your reaction when two of your countrywomen doused you with water on the 18th green?  
MIRIM LEE: (Through translation.)  When they coming out I just thought, Don't spread it on me.  But only the winner can enjoy the moment, so it was very special.   
 Q.  Maybe a question your countrywomen have only been asked 1000 times, but why are there so many talented South Korean golfers?  
MIRIM LEE: I don't know.  (Laughter.) (Through translation.)  Just practice make perfect.  More practice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT