RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2016
Mirim Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the day?  
MIRIM LEE: Just I feel good.  I hit more good shots.  It's okay, yeah.   
 Q.  You like the golf course?  
MIRIM LEE: Oh, yeah, I like golf course.  Greens good.  Golf course good, yeah.   
 Q.  How hard was it to follow a round of 10-under par yesterday and how satisfied after another under-par round today?  
MIRIM LEE: Yeah, today the tee shot was a little bit difficult.  I had issues with my tee shot.  I think I putted okay.  I had a couple of 3-putts but I think with some practice, I can overcome my mistakes today.   
 Q.  You've had some pretty good results in major championships so far this year.  What is it about this one that you think is bringing out the best in your game?  
MIRIM LEE: I think it's just a result of all the hard work I put in and I think most importantly, I'm just trying to have fun.  That's what's making me feel comfortable.   
 Q.  What's your new coach from KPMG?  
MIRIM LEE: Tony Ziegler.   
 Q.  Your back round on the KLPGA, when did you turn pro?  How many years did you play?  
MIRIM LEE: 2010 is when I turned pro, four years on the KLPGA, three wins.   
 Q.  Changes that you have made at all in your swing with Tony, any changes in particular?  
MIRIM LEE: Most focus on addressing and direction, and also when I take back my swing, my clubface tends to be shot a little bit, so we work on that, keeping it a little open.   
 Q.  What did you learn from the U.S. Women's Open when you held the lead and then stumbled a little bit?  Did you learn anything that you want to apply this week, since you kept the lead today?  
MIRIM LEE: When I shot 8-under at the U.S. Women's Open, I still felt like I left some shots out there.  I tried, my aim was to try to be consistent for all four rounds.  I think with more practice, I was able to do that.   
 Q.  I know you said yesterday, you don't feel nervous out on the golf course.  When was the last time you felt nervous, ever?  
MIRIM LEE: I mean, as an athlete, everybody has at least a little bit of nervousness going into a tournament.  You know, I think after the first two holes, I tend to forget about it.  But I think having that little bit of nervousness with you, is what makes me play better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT