RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2016
Mirim Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIRIM LEE: It's been three years.   
 Q.  What made you go to Dallas, Texas?  
MIRIM LEE: Yeah, because my aunt lives in Dallas.  If I'm going to live away from home, better to be somewhere where relative family is.  On top of it, there's a big Korean community there, and obviously for tax reasons, as well.   
 Q.  Same coaches?  
MIRIM LEE: Yeah.   
 Q.  New caddie since KPMG?  How long has he been on the bag?  
MIRIM LEE: One more week.   
 Q.  What are your hobbies?  
MIRIM LEE: In Korea, just getting together with my fans and the usual girl talking and watching movies, spending time with my friends.  Since I've been here in the US, really haven't had any specific hobby.  Just chill out at home and just lay down on the couch.   
 Q.  Are your parents still in Korea?  
MIRIM LEE: Yes.   
 Q.  And do you have brothers and sisters?  
MIRIM LEE: Yeah, I've got a younger brother and older sister.  My older sister travels with me acting as my manager.   
 Q.  Is that your best-ever round?  
MIRIM LEE: Yeah, I've shot 11-under before.  It was back in I think second round of LPGA Q-School, final stage.  Just so happens my caddie at the time was my caddie today.   
 Q.  And who is this caddie?  
MIRIM LEE: John Kileen.   
 Q.  And first-round leader the last at U.S. Women's Open, last major, what's with starting to fast at these big events?  You come out with no pressure?  
MIRIM LEE: I think the difference is that now I'm trying to have fun.  I'm trying to enjoy it, whereas in the beginning of the year, things weren't really going well for me, so I really put a lot of work into it and I think it's just natural that it's showing, the hard work is showing now.  It's paying off now, yeah.   
 Q.  The injury --  
MIRIM LEE: There's no pain.  I'm just using it to prevent getting injured.  It's just from hitting too many balls and practicing too much, and the tendons got week, so it's kind of accumulated.  So I'm just trying to prevent any further injury.   
 Q.  And do you enjoy playing in the U.K.?  Are you enjoying your time here?  
MIRIM LEE: Yes, I wanted to come here and play last year, but I had my injury which prevented me from coming, but it's good I'm here this week because I got to spend some time in London and do the touristy things.  I went to Buckingham palace and went to this big department store, Harrod's.  Once I did that, it was time for me to come here and get my game face on, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you buy anything at Harrod's?  
MIRIM LEE: I wanted to buy something, but there was so many people there, you had to wait in long lines.  So I just mainly did eye shopping.   
 Q.  Can you take us through any key shots today, any really, really good -- I know you said putts were short, but any good shots?  
MIRIM LEE: There's not really one specific hole or a few specific holes where I feel like I did splendidly well.  It's just that all the holes, I played every one of them really well.  Just, you know, on the green, on the fairway, similar amount of distance in putts.  Overall it was all-around good.   
 Q.  Is that the best you ever felt like you've played, the best round you've played?  
MIRIM LEE: I would say so.  I mean, I had a few missed shots but they weren't really big of an error or anything.  I would say it's one of the best.   
 Q.  What is it about the course that you like particularly?  
MIRIM LEE: When you normally think of British Open, you think of high roughs, difficult roughs.  But here it feels more like California, so I think that really made me feel comfortable.   
 Q.  Would you say your big sister is like a mother or a friend?  
MIRIM LEE: She's strict.   
 Q.  What does she tell you to do?  
MIRIM LEE: She doesn't really get too much involved with the golf side other than she reminds me I should train really well on the physical side, and if my posture is not correct, she'll say, get your posture straight.  That's about it.   
 Q.  And what are the ages?  
MIRIM LEE: 25.   
 Q.  And your sister's name?  
MIRIM LEE: She's 35.  Jijeun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT