REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 5, 2014
Mirim Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Mirim, congratulations.   Please take us back to the last three holes.   There were several breathe‑holding moments when you were trying to save the ball from the rock.   What was on your mind?   
    MIRIM LEE:   Because of the wind it(indiscernible), and when I found out where my ball was I thought it was impossible for me to par, to save par.   I put it my mind saying I need to par.   I was able to putt it in.   
   
 Q.   If I remember correctly, you once participated in a tournament in China where you even won a Hyundai car.   Here you have won your very first LPGA title.   Do you find China a place of love for you?   
    MIRIM LEE:   Obviously China is very close to my home.   I won this tournament, so I think China and myself are a pretty good fit, pretty good match.   
   
 Q.   Not sure if you have noticed, but there is a 12‑year‑old girl from Beijing who followed you very closely because you look pretty much like each other.   Are you aware of that?   
    MIRIM LEE:   I didn't know that.   I was so focused today I couldn't even really find my family.   Today was tough for me to find anybody.  
    I was just really focused on the tournament.   
   
 Q.   Well‑played, Mirim.   Can I take you back to the 17th?   Can you explain, was your ball actually lying on the rock?   Were you able to ground your club?   When you hit your shot, did it go where you were aiming it to go?   
    MIRIM LEE:   The ball was actually on the rock.   It went to the direction I wanted it to go, but it wasn't the momentum that I wanted.   
    So I was telling it to sit down and sit, but I think the result was pretty good.   I was happy with the outcome.   
   
 Q.   Could she ground her cub or was it in the hazard?   
    MIRIM LEE:   It was in the hazard.   
   
 Q.   So she couldn't ground the club?  
    MIRIM LEE:   Correct.   
   
 Q.   How long was the birdie putt on 17?   
    MIRIM LEE:   12 feet with her feet, so about 12 steps.   
   
 Q.   Shanshan from China had a dramatic win on the 18th in the final round and she won.   People associated her name with her name with a kind of luck kind of because of her family name and also Shanshan is a double syllable name.   And also, do you kind of believe that your name, Mirim, in Chinese (indiscernible) is related with trees or forest.   You have the planting of champions tree here.   
    MIRIM LEE:   I really don't know how to answer that question.   It's really kind of a tough question to answer.   
    To your point, yes, I do think I have a pretty name.   I like my name.   Perhaps it does bring me luck.  
    I think there is an old saying in Korea that how you name a baby means a lot.   It really decides how things and fate happens in the future.   So I do think I have a great name and it's bringing me luck.   
    MODERATOR:   Very last question.   
   
 Q.   (Question not recorded.)   
    MIRIM LEE:   I really had no idea what it was $190,000 [sic] until you mentioned it.   
    I think I tend to focus more on where I finish in terms of where I am on the tournament rather than where I am on the Money List or how much money I made.  
    With that said, $315,000 is a lot of money.   I'm very happy.   I don't actually manage my own money, so it's never really something that's in my mind much.   
    But it's a lot of money and I like it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT