ANA INSPIRATION
September 13, 2020
Mirim Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by ANA Inspiration champion Mirim Lee.  You won back in 2014 after a playoff.  Compared to then, how does it feel?
 MIRIM LEE:   Even then and even now, I tried not to overthink too much, and I think that's why I was able to win, because I got to play like I normally do.
 THE MODERATOR:   How do you feel?
 MIRIM LEE:   Honestly, I can't really believe it right now.  To be honest, I feel like I must be a little crazy for winning and for having won this, and I think I'll be able to feel it once I meet my family and reunite with them.
 To be honest, of the four rounds, today I struggled the most, but I think I had a bit of luck that helped me, but to be honest, not a lot of my shots were the way that I wanted them.
 THE MODERATOR:   Do you have a message for the Korean fans, the fans watching in Korea?
 MIRIM LEE:   I feel grateful that they've been watching and supporting, and even though right now is a really difficult time because of COVID-19, I'm just really grateful for their support.
 Q. I was hoping you could take us through the eagle chip in regulation and what was sort of the plan there and how you felt about that shot.
 MIRIM LEE:   It was a bit disappointing having the bogey on 17, so my plan for 18 was just to have a birdie and do what I have to do to keep my head up, and when the shot went in, I think I was really surprised.  It must have been a bit of luck that helped me.
 Q. What was the second shot?  I believe you hit a 5-wood.  What was the strategy there?
 MIRIM LEE:   I definitely thought to utilize the back and the back board.  When I had practice rounds, I had practiced that shot, so it was a definite for me to use the space there.
 Q. Is chipping the best part of your game?
 MIRIM LEE:   Yes.
 Q. Has it always been the best part of your game?
 MIRIM LEE:   Not really.  I think just today.
 Q. Can you remember a round when you have had three chip-ins?
 MIRIM LEE:   I think I've had two chip-ins before but not three.
 Q. After this you have Cambia Portland Classic.  What's your plan going forward?
 MIRIM LEE:   Even though I managed to pull it off today, I have a lot of things that I'd like to improve and fix in my game, so moving forward, that's what I'm going to focus on.
 Q. Mirim, was there any point today prior to 18 where you thought, I can win this thing?
 MIRIM LEE:   Yes, I definitely thought that I could do it and I could win this, but I tried to disregard that and just keep playing.
 Q. You didn't look like you really wanted to jump into the lake.  Are you afraid of water?
 MIRIM LEE:   Usually I'm not afraid of water, but the pool looked a little deep, so it's true that at that moment I hesitated a little bit.
 Q. I know this is the first time you've won a major.  What do you think about your future in majors?  Although you are very lucky today to chip in three, four times in critical moments.  How are you going to feel in the future when you play at this kind of major on the final day?  Can you tell me about your mentality where you create those shots?
 MIRIM LEE:   I don't consider majors any different from regular tournaments, and moving forward, whenever I go to a major, I believe I'll treat it the same.  All tournaments, major or otherwise, are the same to me, so I think that also took a little bit of the pressure off because I didn't treat it any different.
 Q. What was the best moment of the day do you think?
 MIRIM LEE:   I was happy after the playoff finished and that I was finished.
 Q. And maybe the best shot of the day?
 MIRIM LEE:   It's between the chip-in on 18, but also I think I had a good chip-in on 16.
 Q. What are you going to do now that you've finished your day?  How are you going to relax?  After this I am going to return back to the hotel room and speak with my family and just have a really good night's sleep.
 Q. How long was the chip on 16?
 MIRIM LEE:   30 yards.  It was about 30 yards.
 THE MODERATOR:   Mirim, thank you so much, and congratulations.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT