U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2020
Amari Avery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Talk about the hole-out on 14.  Talk me through that shot.
 AMARI AVERY:   I mean, I was in the middle of the fairway.  I was just trying to put it somewhere on the green.  Michaela just birdied the previous hole, so I was 1-down, so I was like, I've just got to put this on the green, keep myself from going any more down.  I was stuck in between two clubs actually.  We just took the shorter club because I'm used to hitting the harder shot.  We went with that, it hit the green, we thought it was good, and we watched it and it went in.
 Q. What club did you use?
 AMARI AVERY:   8-iron.
 Q. How far out were you?
 AMARI AVERY:   It was about like 155.
 Q. You were down I think two at one point today.
 AMARI AVERY:   I was.
 Q. What was your mindset and how were you able to come back from the deficit?
 AMARI AVERY:   I didn't mind it really.  Me and Michaela, the front nine we were going back and forth the entire time, just birdie here, birdie there.  Yeah, I mean, I was 2-down and I was just trying to put it on the green, keep it in the fairway, because I knew as long as I was in the fairway I had a chance.
 Q. You got to play a course a few times, a few days now.  Did you make any adjustments out there today?
 AMARI AVERY:   Today not much.  The first day I had a pretty rough day.  We got postponed the second day, so that day we went to the range and put some work in.  My driver and my 3-wood were a little bit crazy, so we had to fix that a bit, but once that was fixed and I was back in the fairway, we were back in business.
 Q. How does it feel to be on to the round of 32 and what's the mindset going forward?
 AMARI AVERY:   The mindset is trying to go one hole at a time, one shot at a time.  I'm obviously excited.  Yeah, it was an intense match.  I was just telling my sister on the course, she's on the bag, I was just telling her even if I don't make it through to the round of 32, this has been one of the best matches I've ever had.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT