U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2019
Alexa Pano
Amari Avery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you guys want to tell us a little bit about your round today?  Walk us through it.
ALEXA PANO: Which one?
Q. Oh, let's talk about this morning.
ALEXA PANO: Okay.
AMARI AVERY: Okay.
ALEXA PANO: This morning was a really tough match.  We definitely had some slow play out there which was tough, but all around I felt like we finished really strong.  Got unlucky on a couple putts, otherwise would've ended sooner.
It felt really good to have that momentum going into the second match.
Q. So then talk to me now about the most recent match.
AMARI AVERY: This match was a little bit more tiring, I mean, obviously, playing another, 14, 15 holes.  But we just kind of kept our head in the game and stayed being positive and just keep hitting the shots we needed to hit.
I think we just worked better on the second 15.  (Laughter.)  Yeah.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah.
Q. Were you at any point in the afternoon starting to feel gassed a little bit?
AMARI AVERY: Oh, yeah.  I think I was gassed on the like 1st hole.  It was so hot.  I was pushing through because I knew we wanted to win, we want to go on to semis.  I just kept pushing and just telling myself I can do it and we'll get through it.
Q. I guess you still wind up playing 36 anyway, right?
ALEXA PANO: Pretty much, yeah.
AMARI AVERY: A total of 36, yeah.
Q. Were either one of you playing off the other in the sense was somebody hitting good iron shots and somebody else putting well?  Was it a mix today?
ALEXA PANO: I mean, I think combining both our 36 it was kind of a mix, except for like that five-hole stretch throughout the playoff and the finishing holes here.  Those were the five holes that we like really came together and were both hitting excellent shots and just got unlucky on a couple birdie putts.
AMARI AVERY: Yeah.
ALEXA PANO: But like it was a pretty good mix throughout the whole day.  We were pretty consistent.  I think we only one bogey together the whole 36, so it was good.
AMARI AVERY: Yeah.
Q. Alexa, down in south Florida there are some Ross courses down there.  Flat; maybe tree lined.  Do you feel like you have enough experience on courses like this where it's helped you this week?
ALEXA PANO: I mean, I've played like all around the country, and every course is different, obviously.  This course the thing I found most challenging is the greens are rock hard.  It gets harder daily, but it's taken a lot of practice on the course and a lot of rounds to finally start to figure it out.
I'm glad we got 36 in today, so hopefully I have it completely down for tomorrow.
Q. Are you having to land a lot of balls kind of short and running them up on the green?
ALEXA PANO: Yeah.  It's almost like every hole we're playing everything ten yards less and having to run it up.  Once you figure that out, if you're hitting solid shots they receive well.
AMARI AVERY: Even then they roll off, too.  You've got to watch out a little bit.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah.
Q. Were you motivated in any way to try to get the afternoon over in a hurry?
ALEXA PANO: I think the hotter it got the more motivated we were to finish.
AMARI AVERY: Yeah, the more hotter it got the more on fire we were, so...
Not to be cocky or anything.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT