U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2019
Amari Avery
Alexa Pano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it go, the changeover from stroke play to match play?  How was that transition for you two?
ALEXA PANO: I mean, I don't think the transition was hard.  I felt like we played solid like we did the other days.
We both had our own struggles out there throughout the whole round until the end finally getting it together, which is the same thing that happened in stroke play.
AMARI AVERY: I think we work better as a team in match play more than stroke play.  Kind of learned from our past rounds.  You just play a little better.
ALEXA PANO: Positive.
AMARI AVERY: Yeah.
Q. Was there sort of a rough patch during stroke play for you two?
AMARI AVERY: I just think my emotions got the best of me, and she got shaken up on the course with her swing and stuff.  Other than that, we've been fine.  We got better as time went on.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah.
Q. Kind of right the ship a little bit?
AMARI AVERY: Exactly.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah.
Q. Any particular hole that kind of jump started you?
ALEXA PANO: We both made a lot of clutch pars, and that was really good.  The front nine we really didn't have a ton the birdies, but the back nine the match went to all square through 13 maybe.  I'm not sure.
And then I made a par and she made a birdie, and then we both made birdies on the next hole and then a birdie to close it out.  That was the main stretch that really secured it.
Q. Birdies put you over the top, but pars are really important in match play.  Have you found pars to be very much a friend in these matches?
AMARI AVERY: I think in stroke play they can be.  Maybe in match play a little bit less.  Depending on who you're playing with.
Yeah, pars are definitely your friend.  You just got to hit the shots and you got to be...
Q. And as far as the fourball is concerned, this is your second time in it, right?
AMARI AVERY: No, this is our first fourball together.
ALEXA PANO: I've been in one other.
Q. How far did you get?
ALEXA PANO: Round of 32.
Q. Okay.  So this is new territory?
ALEXA PANO: Yes.
AMARI AVERY: Uh-huh.
Q. How do you enjoy the format in general as partners?
AMARI AVERY: Well, I definitely enjoy more fourball because you have a partner, so you get to rely on them.  If you hit it bad, you can rely on them to come through.  Obviously if you don't play well it's fine.  I know she has my back and I have hers.
We just work together as a team, so...
Q. The two birdies you made, can you just tell me a little bit about them.
ALEXA PANO: Yeah, we had three in a row.  I know I hit a really bad drive on one hole; ended up kicking up, but you hit it into the bunker.
AMARI AVERY: Yeah, it was pretty much drivable par-4.  Flew it into the bunker.
Q. On 14?
AMARI AVERY: 14, yeah.  Hit it to about three and a half feet and then just drained the putt.
Q. So that bunker shot was about 50 yards?
AMARI AVERY: About 35, 40.  Definitely a tough shot, but I've practiced those shots before just because I know I'm a long hitter and I know I might have those shots.
Q. Is that the one that put you 1-up?
ALEXA PANO: That put us 1-up -- or, no, 2-up, and then the par-5 we both hit it in the fairway and then we went for the green.  She was just short and I hit it into the bunker left.
I put my bunker shot about five feet and you chipped it up to three, four feet; made the putts.  Pretty simple.
Then our final hole I put it to about seven, eight feet and they conceded after they hit like five shots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT