U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1995
Luke Jensen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Why 42?

LUKE JENSEN: Ronnie Lott. Biggest, baddest football player in the modern day era. Guy
hits people for a living.

Q. Yeah, but what is the connection?

LUKE JENSEN: Well, actually, it really started out I went to Southern Cal. He was there
and when I was being recruited by SC, I really grew up wanting to be a football player;
wanting to go to Notre Dame and -- but tennis was what I went for, and, of course,
Southern Cal is one of the best tennis schools to go too. I was visiting the top schools
at the time SMU, Clemson, UCLA, Pepperdine, and then when I went to SC, after going to all
these other schools where they are showing me the tennis program and how great this and
that was, I walk into SC. Coach Leach, Rick Leach's father, took me to the Heritage room
and showed me the Heisman's and I just happened to run into O.J. Simpson, Ronnie Lott and
Marcus Allen. That is when I said, where do I sign. That was it. I went to a SC/UCLA
football game. At that time, Ronnie Lott wore black shoes, when they black football Notre
Dame too. I started wearing the black shoes on the tennis court because of Ronnie Lott,
and just the difference in attitude and I like the way he plays.

Q. Did you have to ask somebody in the tournament office or something is it okay if I
wear a number?

LUKE JENSEN: Absolutely. Oh, yeah, everything we wear out there, the first thing -- for
instance, we try to -- the ITF and ATP have their own set of guidelines. We have to give
everything, approved material, colors, buttons. Ever since we came out with our gasoline
mechanic shirts about three years ago, of course, the logo I -- name and number on the
back, the ATP allows you to have your own name and any number you want on the back of a
jersey or a shirt. But the ITF only will allow you to put a number on the back and you can
put your name if it is -- you want to use it as one of your logos, like if I have a Sharp
deal or these other deals, so every -- of course, every organization has their own set of
rules. I think it is a good idea in the sense where when you watch Ivanisevic or a Vacek,
people don't know, just by looking at the scoreboard, who is who. But if you have names
and numbers, or you can really recognize who is out there and it becomes more of a novelty
item instead of just having a shirt that you can buy at a Foot Locker and Agassi throwing
another shirt out into the crowd, what is the difference? If you have an original Agassi
jersey with his name on it, there is only so many made; it makes it more valuable. I
think.

Q. How did you get the wildcard? How did that come about? Do you know really the
mechanics of how?

LUKE JENSEN: Actually, I had been playing good all year. I received some chances, -- I
Philadelphia, Memphis I have beaten guys like Jared Palmer, Brian Shelton this year in
Tour events. And I lost a close two-set match to Michael Chang in Memphis, and so I was --
first of all, shown I can play their game and second of all, I think really doing a lot of
things for the game of tennis for the USTA and whether it is clinics, going out there and
being a positive representative for the game, the kids, to the fan. I think just going out
to pick up my paycheck acting like a primadonna isn't going to get you anywhere. You have
to be a positive role model and I have asked the USTA to that. I am working hard. It is
just not something to go out there and pick up some extra money. It is all about getting
an opportunity to play and this is our championships and I qualified this year in the
Australian Open. So I put in a request and they were able to give it to me.

Q. Thomas Muster is ranked third in or seeded third in this tournament, even though I
think he has only played 11 hard court matches this year and zero grass court matches. Do
you think, as a fellow tennis player, is that fair? Is there any other way to figure these
rankings out?

LUKE JENSEN: Remember, I don't think he was top 10 in the world last year. If you look
at what Berasategui was last year, everyone was saying it wasn't very fair that he got to
get to the World Championships because he played most of his matches on dirt, and
especially during the final fall swing to get into Frankfurt, where he showed up and got
smoked by Agassi. After playing on all the dirt matches next year, he has to designate, I
think, eight of his tournaments at Super 9 events so he can't just go out and play dirt
all the way through. This year, Indian Wells, he won Mexico City -- this is Muster, won
Mexico City in altitude on red clay, and I think got to the quarters of Indian Wells
beating Michael Chang in a long match. So the guy really is an animal. He is one of the
most fit players. He plays full-court press on you, in the sense where I think of an
Agassi takes the ball more on the rise, but the way he approaches it, if you isolate on
Muster, he is the first one to get off his chair. He tries to keep the points moving all
the time. He is not going to take a lot of time between points, so that takes a guy like
myself, who wants to take the full 20, 25 seconds to regroup myself; to catch my breath;
he is always leaning on you, he is always putting pressure on you, so you tend to play a
little quicker, so you don't recover as fast after points and he buries you. When you
think of a full-court press in basketball, he is just always pushing to play faster and
harder and he moves you all the time. He makes you work for points and he just chews you
up and spits you out. He goes "next victim, please."

Q. Isn't part of what he does body language too? Isn't he trying to intimidate you? He
is showing you how fit he is and whatever it takes; he is going to be out there for
several hours?

LUKE JENSEN: If you look at early tapes of Ali, he never sat down in the corner. He'd
be dancing and taunting going after guys, and that was how fit he was. And it is very
intimidating. I am sitting down and trying to regroup myself and go over notes that I have
written down and trying to get ready; all of a sudden this guy, after five seconds, is
walking by, you know, and he is still has, you know, that smell of Umag in his breath, and
"what is going on here," so -- and, you know, my plan was to attack and keep the
points short even when we didn't get into some long rallies. He sets up and uses his
forehands; moves you side to side; doesn't really want to knock you off with big win.
First he is going to keep you stretched and make you play 15 to 20 ball rallies, and he
really -- it is an attitude and it is really the way he enjoys playing. It is very
intimidating; especially on clay when you can -- like here I can get some traction out
here and run some balls. But on clay, he can go behind you and guys are scared of him.
Guys are -- I mean, Agassi is just flat out the best player in the world right now, but
there are guys who do not want to go out be against Thomas Muster because physically they
are going to breakdown.

Q. What does Umag smell like?

LUKE JENSEN: Umag, you know, I don't know. I don't even want to touch that one.

Q. All that accepted, is there a sense on this surface that Muster is the No. 3 player
in the world; can he be a factor in this tournament?

LUKE JENSEN: I think it is really disappointing in a sense where if you talk to Agassi
and Sampras and they say whoever wins this Grand Slam out of the -- out of those three
players, Sampras Agassi, Muster, and whoever wins this Grand Slam is going to be world No.
1. Now, in my opinion, Thomas Muster doesn't have so many shots at being world No. 1. This
is a great opportunity. I think coming here and playing maybe Long Island or playing New
Haven or Indianapolis two weeks before and he is very good on this surface, he has had
some great results here, quarterfinals. He had a great five set match, I think, with Pete
Sampras, one year, and he can play on this surface, but not to come here when it really
does being the world's No. 1 player. He can win on this surface, but to go to Umag and
play in these tournaments that he is going to win, it just doesn't make any sense to me. I
mean, you have a great opportunity to go out there and be the best player in the world for
1995 and to say, well, I played in Umag, and I won in Umag, that makes no sense to me.
It's disappointing. 

Q. You don't see him as the No. 3 player here at this tournament?

LUKE JENSEN: He just kicked my butt. I am not going to say the guy stinks, but -- I
think there is so much depth. I think you really have to have major weapons. Andre Agassi,
Pete Sampras have major weapons. There are so many good guys in the draw with big serves,
big groundstrokes who can run all day. He is going to have to do a lot more then just hit
groundstrokes because there is a lot of guys who can run faster than he can; can serve
bigger; can hit better groundstrokes and volleys and believe they can win on this surface
against him. Now, if you put some dirt out here; then it is going to be different, but I
think it is going to catch up to him in two weeks; not being able to feel the clay under
your feet. It is a whole different surface. Think about it, the guy got on an airplane
from Umag. It is not a direct flight, Umag to New York - wherever he went, you know, he
probably took some mule and got in one of those U.N. things, troop transports, so, you
know-- pulled right into New York. But, you know, let us say, he is probably going to have
to play tomorrow, I don't know -- did Woodforde win? 

Q. Yes.

LUKE JENSEN: Yeah, Woodforde is going to keep the ball long on him; going to make him
work, so I think it is, like I said, it is going to be a long hall. I still like Sampras
or Agassi.

Q. Like, do you get the impression that the attitudes of the other players toward what
you do is changing?

LUKE JENSEN: I think as far as what Murph and I do, on-court things or --

Q. Just in general, yeah.

LUKE JENSEN: I don't think so. I think -- of course there is some things like Smash
Tennis that the ATP is doing. I think you see the game really trying to do more for kids,
really Sports Illustrated with that big questionmark on the cover, I think, woke a lot of
people up - having the Agassi/Sampras rivalry. A lot of people said this was a joke that I
got a wildcard here. I believe I have worked hard enough and I have done a lot of things
to deserve this wildcard and I can play at this level, and it was an honor to play him,
but I am out there to play my best and have fun out there and players, I mean, I will be
on one side of the lockerroom; I will be hearing: "Jensen has got a football jersey
on now and Jensen is wearing black shoes," I mean, you hear this in the lockerroom.
From these guppies, I mean, these guys who have concaved chests, so they have more, you
know, they are so worried about what the Jensens are doing rather than going out and doing
something positive for the game. And I am not worried about -- you can't be worried about
what other players say. I have more of a positive response from the media; a positive
response from the tournament directors, and the fans and as long as I go out there and
enjoy what I do and play with a lot of enthusiasm, I have played with jealousy; everyone
has. What you have done, when you are coming through, everyone is going to be jealous of
you for doing something; being better; being different. As soon as you start listening to
those people, you are failing. So...

Q. You played on stadium court in singles here before?

LUKE JENSEN: I practiced with Chris Evert in 1983. She got to the finals that year;
that was pretty good.

Q. When did you -- I guess you learned just yesterday you will be playing on this
court?

LUKE JENSEN: I have had like a little while to prepare for this, the tournament, they
have been really good about the schedule. Murphy has had food poisoning last couple of
days. We have been able to play Thursday night. I have been coming here early in the
morning and late at night and able to get out on the court and playing in the big house
and practice.

Q. Beyond tennis's reaction to the Jensens per se, how do you think it is going, in
terms of rock and roll tennis, the concept, do you think the tennis world will ever get
the beat and/or do you think it is going to be the same old --

LUKE JENSEN: I think it is really starting to move forward in the sense that of course,
it is great. There is a medium because you are not going to be as fast pace as the Jensens
and if we did, we would have lights, lasers, and blimps flying in, and helicopters and the
whole thing, but we are not playing in Forest Hills anymore. So I think we are moving in
the right direction and I think you see we are doing things -- more things for the kids,
more clinics, more things that are exciting, we are not just letting our game get stale or
getting -- making it boring. We are trying to do more for the fan; do more for each event
and will they ever accept it? You have to -- the way Connors used to approach the game,
McEnroe with a lot of intensity and Arthur Ashe with his integrity, I think you go around;
you sit in the lockerroom now and it is such -- it is competitive, but a very relaxed
atmosphere. I mean, Pete -- there isn't this seeded player -- there used to be a section
only for seeded players and that was like the hands off place unless you were one of the
chosen ones, one of the high ranked guys. All the other victims were in the back, but now,
they have remodelled it this year, and it is one of the nicest lockerrooms in the circuit.
Courier is in the back here and Chang is over here and Pete is walking around there, and
everyone is saying hi and, you know, Todd Martin is getting one of his Davis Cup warmup
jackets signed by all the top players to auction it off for charity, so it is very
relaxed. It is not this cut throat attitude and everyone is out there of course trying to
do a job here at the U.S. Open, but also it is very -- it is a fun atmosphere. It really
is. I think the way these young adults are looking at the game, like I said, with Kids
Days, we do Smash Tennis. Nike did a thing with the ATP and Pete Sampras -- Agassi, drove
one of those Hummers in Central Park, and Rusedski was there serving bombs. I think those
type of things at such major events is going to create tennis into a bigger, bigger sport
here in the states.

Q. Is it ultimately better for you to have gotten stuck with the No. 3 guy in the world
today than as a wildcard to go in with some sort of nobody and get a round or two in?

LUKE JENSEN: Oh, when I was just starting out we used to go to tournaments, I was, I
think, ranked No. 3 in northern Michigan. Now that is like up north. I remember going to
the big city like Lancing, Michigan and playing these tournaments. I would draw the first
seed. My dad would approach me and say these are the guys you want to play; you want to
play these guys early in the tournament and you want to take their draw. You want to see
where your game is and compare it to those top players and every time I hit a draw I want
to play the top seed. I want to play the best that there is, and go for it. I am not --
you can't be afraid of anybody; whether you are a 10 year old or a professional at 29
years old, you want to play the best. I have had a chance now almost to play Agassi in New
Haven and the Australian Open. I have fallen short twice, but I want to play him. I want
to see what it is like to throw my game out there and watch my serve come back faster than
I shot it out. 

Q. Where is your game now? You say you like to compare it --

LUKE JENSEN: Actually, I am very -- I started out pretty tight and settled in okay. I
think I definitely need to be more fit. I need to work on my groundstrokes. Really play
more singles events. I have to schedule a lot smarter. Right now I have played every
single week so far from January 1 starting in Doah going to Jakarta, all around the United
States, and Europe, and I think if I sit there and slow down and concentrate and say okay,
I want to be in the top 100 by 1996, and really schedule like play some Challengers this
fall and really work on my return of serve game and be able to stay in the backcourt with
a Thomas Muster and look for my opportunities to get in. I am happy with the way I am
serving. Of course, I feel comfortable playing anybody. I have doubles and being on teams
with the Davis Cup team as a sparring partner; hanging out with these guys in the
lockerroom, they are like friends of mine, so I am not afraid that, ooh, I am playing
Thomas Muster; he has 70 million clay court tournaments in a row and I have only played
one tournament, period, but I am just out there to try again to build my entire game and
keep going. I am 29, but I feel very young. I haven't been beat up so bad, and I have a
very positive attitude.

Q. Would you give up the limelight for a higher ranking?

LUKE JENSEN: Oh, yeah. I would be -- I would love to just be to be a singles player. I
started out as junior, as one of the top juniors here in the nation and pretty high in the
world and really to be able to go out there and win matches and compete, would be a great
thrill of mine. I mean, I'd definitely give up everything I have now and go after that.
But I think also as a top singles player you have a lot more of an opportunity to be a
positive role model to kids in this game. There is only so much I can do; only so much
that I can do because we are not on TV that much. We are not -- we are not a top doubles
team, but if I was a top singles player, like a Kafelnikov, singles and doubles, you can
do so much for this game, so I think the opportunity to win more singles would be a
positive for everybody.

Q. What do you say to the guy in the locker room, the jealous types, that think maybe
they doubt what your motives are because obviously you enjoy the kids - I have seen you
around the kids - it is very sincere, apparently, anyway, and what do you say to those
guys? 

LUKE JENSEN: After I beat them up or before I beat them up? Again, you really can't
worry about that. I work just as hard as anybody, and I put in twice as much time. In my
opinion, this game needs to get more guys like the Jensens or Andre Agassi; not that you
have to go out and act differently on the tennis court to get fans, but what about playing
more doubles. If you are Thomas Muster, let us go back to the old school when Laver played
singles, doubles, and mixed or at least two events at a Grand Slam where top players were
better athletes; we always talk about it, they were better. We hit stronger; move faster.
Well, then we can played two events, and what about at other tournaments, instead of
singles only, let us play singles and doubles and let us do it in golf where you are made
to give up two hours or made to do a Pro Am for the tournament director, so can you
imagine if you are on Long Island last week; you knew you had 32 of your players from the
No. 1 on down are going to do a Pro Am or a kids clinic or go to a hospital for a visit, I
mean, those are the type of things that sell this game and that are good for the community
and for everyone in general. So when they knock on me for going out and signing autographs
and doing good for the game, who are these guys? I mean, they are just -- they think they
are somebody. I was in New Haven with Rod Laver and some kid came up to me and asked for
my autograph and didn't ask for Rod Laver's. Now, Laver is the greatest player who ever
played the game. He will never tell you that. He will say "my record speaks for
itself." But one day some kid is going to come up to a new hot shot and not know who
I am, and ask for his autograph. So my 15 minutes to contribute to this game is
"right now." If I can tell a player, you have got to do more talking to a
Kafelnikov who doesn't like to do on-court interviews, after the matches, I mean, having
the fans answer -- ask questions to the player two or three questions, after each match,
he doesn't like to do it, but it is not twisting an arm. It is part of the game. You are
getting paid a lot of money to do nothing. So I think we are trying to treat these
primadonnas like they are china. I want to get them out there; get them to do more
clinics; play more tennis. If I am a fan right now, I will be hacked off if I paid my
money to come to this tournament see Pete Sampras play one match and then a day off and
then another match. I want to see him play singles and then a mixed doubles; then a
doubles. It is not going to kill anybody. This is the U.S. Open. You should want to play
here, but we have allowed a window of opportunity for specialists to come in. That is
cutting my job. I think all singles players should be in the doubles. But that means I
have to be a better player and get my butt in the singles.

Q. Muster, the ultimate specialist, he didn't even play Wimbledon?

LUKE JENSEN: Well, I think that is where the best 14 in my opinion came into play.
Whereas, before clay courters never played the grass and grass courters never played on
the clay. Now you are really able to improve your game. I think it is wrong that Thomas
Muster didn't go and put his stuff on the grass. And if you are a professional tennis
player and especially with him, anybody, to play the Grand Slams is the most -- the best
thing you can do in this game, to have the opportunity to step on the grounds at Wimbledon
and U.S. Open and Aussie Open and the French, those are our four big kahunas; you should
want to play those and prepare your very best, and even though there are downsides to the
best of 14, but the upside is you can go there and try your best and not be penalized for
it. 

Q. Is there a problem in attitude, in other words, Thomas just said, Wimbledon is
Wimbledon, that is one thing, but Thomas Muster is Thomas Muster. I am basically probably
not going to play for quite a while?

LUKE JENSEN: Yeah, I mean, that is sad in my opinion because if you are No. 3 in the
world and Thomas Muster is going to look back one day and his grand kids are going to say
hey, grandpa, how did you do at Wimbledon; he goes, you know, I didn't play. It is like
grand kids are going to say what was wrong with you, what were you taking -- what were you
smoking?

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT