BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2021
RJ Nembhard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Kansas State, 71 - TCU, 50
 Q. RJ, just what went wrong for you all tonight and what was K State able to do?  Seemed like when Pack made those two threes at the end of the first half that was the turning point.
 RJ NEMBHARD:   Yeah, they were executing very well offensively and defensively.  We did a good job of fighting back in the first half and then, like you said, he hit those two threes before the first half ended.
 Thought we were going to be able to come with more energy in the second half, given it's a win or go home, but we couldn't get it together and they kept it going.
 Q. Just how disappointing was it to end the season in the fashion you guys did?
 RJ NEMBHARD:   Very disappointing.  You work hard from June on, and to see this kind of go out like this is very frustrating, very difficult.  But you cherish these moments.  To play the game throughout the pandemic was a blessing, so there are some positives to look at.
 Q. Speaking of positives, obviously a lot of frustration this year, but you guys were able to do some good things, like sweep Oklahoma State.  Are those things that you guys have to focus on over the off-season to just kind of stay focused and stay encouraged?
 RJ NEMBHARD:   Sure, yeah.  Staying together through adversity is something you got to work on in the off-season.  Yeah, so, yeah that is true.
 Q. RJ, next year how much optimism do you have that this team can bounce back and get back to the level that I'm sure you expected when you came here under Coach Dixon?
 RJ NEMBHARD:   I got a lot of optimism.  Got to go back to the drawing board and see how we're going to progress and how we are going to move on next season.
 But there is a lot of positives.  We got a lot of young guys, young talent.  Got a few new guys with Chuck and Easley who got his first taste of the Big 12.  Definitely a lot of the things to work with going into the next season, and hopefully be able to have a full off-season.
 Q. Just one more from me.  Coach talked about how many practices you guys missed.  Do you feel like you guys completely gelled how a normal team would throughout the season?  Obviously you had some moments like the Oklahoma State wins, but did you guys ever get fully on the same page?
 RJ NEMBHARD:   I don't think so.  You know, given the fact that we have so many new guys, you can't make excuses, but it is difficult.  Toughest conference in America.  So you have eight new guys and not really get these reps.  So try to put it all together when the season starts and then, you know, still isn't enough because the Big 12 is a whole different level.
 Trying to put that together in conference play is very difficult.
 Q. RJ, you had a lot of NBA talk around you kind of in the middle of the season as the Big 12 season began.  Is that something you'll take some time to evaluate before you make a decision about next year or do you have something in mind at this point?
 RJ NEMBHARD:   For sure.  I definitely got to go back and sit down and talk with my family and coaches and kind of decide what my decision is gonna be.  So, yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT