NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2006
Sidney Lowe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COACH SIDNEY LOWE:  We felt that we had a chance there.  We came back in the second half and cut it to nine, but our turnovers really hurt us.  That's something that we talked about in the locker room at halftime was taking care of the basketball and not giving them any easy baskets. 
 We had 13 of our 19 turnovers in that second half.  We were both sitting there where we had three straight stops and we had three straight turnovers and we felt that that was really the ballgame there, was our turnovers. 
 You know, it was enjoyable and hopefully these guys, these kids took a great experience from this thing.  I know I did, and it was fun, but it certainly would have been more fun to win.  Even in games like this, you still want to win.  You know, we tried to go out and play the game the right way and hopefully the fans enjoyed it.  While we're a little disappointed in the loss, we feel that we still accomplished some things and we had fun in doing it. 
 Q.  What did Luther have to do out there that was so helpful out there as far as his performance, if you could just talk about it? 
 COACH SIDNEY LOWE:  He hustled.  Plain and simple, he played hard.  He played hard. 
 He was one of the guys that played like he normally plays in a regular game.  He hustled for loose balls.  He ran down some loose balls, he made some shots, made some deflections.  He was a little disappointed at the end because he said he felt he had a couple bad turnovers or something like that, but when you have a guy that's playing like that -- and that's why I left him in the game, to get as many minutes as he can. 
 He gave us energy and he played hard. 
 Q.  Can you talk about Andre's performance.  Just watching him out there today, kind of made it his playground it seemed throughout most of the game. 
 COACH SIDNEY LOWE:  Well, yeah, we were talking about that.  You know, that's one of the things you have to watch out for in these type of games, players tend to loosen up defensively and allow guys to go in and get dunks and things of that nature. 
 While I think the fans enjoy the dunk, I think they like the dunk when it's really done in competition.  You know, when you make a great move and you go up over someone and you dunk. 
 We've got a dunk contest coming tomorrow, so they can see the guys do their thing there.  The games, you can't allow that.  But he had a couple, and he took advantage of it.  But he played well, made some threes, so he deserved the MVP. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT