ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 14, 2011
Sidney Lowe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH LOWE: We just came off a good win at Wake Forest where we played well. I think for the first time in a while we've had about four or five guys that played well for us, so that was a good win for us.   
  
  Q. Seems like you've been placing Demontez Stitt forever, it seems like. What are the problems that he causes? I know he's leading a different kind of offense prosecute them this year. How has he seemed to have adapted to that?   
 COACH LOWE: I tell you what. To respond to the first part of your question, yes, it seems like he's been here about five years already. But I actually saw him, obviously, when he was young and in high school and over here. Just a really good basketball player. He's continuing to get better and better every single year.   
 You don't like seeing him because he's such a tough competitor. You watch it when he plays whatever's needed. He's going to defend you. He's going to score the ball for them. I think it's just his make-up. I think he's just a tough kid. He's a tough young man, and he really competes. Obviously, he means a lot to that program.   
  
  Q. Over the course of his career, what are the ways that you've seen in the proof? How is he better now than he was when he started?   
 COACH LOWE: I think he shoots the ball better now. I think he shoots it better. I think the main thing has just been his experience, his confidence. He's always had that toughness with him. You saw that actually in high school.   
 But I think just the experience factor and learning how to control games, how to pick guys up. His leadership. He didn't have to do that in the previous years because they had some other guys.   
 But you could see that he has become really the leader, I think, of that ballclub. Grant obviously in the back there. But I think Stitt really is the guy that pumps those guys up and gets them going.   
 So his experience has really been the biggest difference. I think his talent has been there. I think it's been the experience that's really gotten him to where he is now.   
  
  Q. How much will you talk about the last game against Clemson before Thursday?   
 COACH LOWE: We're going to definitely talk about it. We're going to watch some of it. Once again we want to watch how we played our last ballgame yesterday and look at the things that we did well again.   
 We're not going to dwell on the lead that we had against Clemson, but we want to show some of the things that they did against us and where we sort of lost our concentration and we didn't go to try to finish the game off. But, again, we'll show some of that, but we'll also show how we played in our last ballgame to show the positive things we did well in the Clemson game as well.   
  
  Q. What were the positives the last time against Clemson?   
 COACH LOWE: Well, we came out. We came out the gate. We really executed well. We defended well. We had great energy. Those are the things you look for to start a game. Certainly on the road against a team like that with Stitt and those guys and Grant, so those were the positive things.   
 Then we have to look at the other things, which I've talked about before. One of our biggest problems have been knowing how to play with the lead. I think that comes with experience. It was good to see that we were able to do it yesterday in that ballgame.   
  
  Q. I heard you give a quote last week about Lorenzo, and you think his future is as a point guard? Did I hear that correctly, and can you discuss that aspect, his learning to play that lead role?   
 COACH LOWE: Yes, I think his future is. I think it can be a point guard. I think it can be a point guard. Obviously he's got to learn how to play that position in terms of the mental part of it, because he's so accustomed to being on the attack.   
 Having said that, when you have a point guard that can attack like that, that's not all bad. But I think with his size, he's certainly better with the ball in his hands. He feels more comfortable with it in his hands. I think his future is a point guard.   
 I think he's going to be able to make that adjustment as far as learning how to play it in terms of time and scoring situations and knowing whether to take it and when not to take it. That's just going to come with experience.   
  
  Q. When Ryan was sick, did Lorenzo get much chance to run as a point?   
 COACH LOWE: Yes, he did. He did a lot, actually. He ran the point against Carolina. He ran it against Duke. When he and Javier are in there together, either one of them can play it and run it, but we actually put the ball in Lorenzo's hands. I know the Carolina game for sure we did.  
 To have Javi come off and play the two-guard position on. Because, again, if Javi moves and gets his feet set, he can make a shot. He's a pretty good shooter if he moves without the ball he has a better chance of scoring that way as opposed to scoring at the point guard position.   
  
  Q. How much did the eight days off seem to help Tracy? And how was his knee yesterday in playing again?   
 COACH LOWE: Yeah, I said it a week ago that this break couldn't have come at a better time for us. Especially for Tracy to rest his knee. He literally did in practice four days, then the days that he did practice, it was very, very light.   
 So it was huge for him to be able to rest and take his time and come back. I thought he did well yesterday. He ran the floor well. Didn't show any signs of pain or anything. Afterwards he said he felt fine. He said he was a little tired, little sore, but it wasn't bad. It wasn't like of before.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT