SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2017
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Scorecard looks identical:  Four birdies on the front, four on the back; a bogey mixed in each.  Tell me about the round overall and how you felt.
RYAN ARMOUR: Felt pretty good out there.  I hit double-digit fairways; I only missed two greens.  Around here the pace of the greens is what you really have to concentrate on.
Overall, other than the three-putt I had on No.4, my pace was really, really good.  I was able to use, as you saw on 18 there, all the hole to make some putts.
For me, that's the thing:  hit fairways and have good pace on the greens.
Q. The impressive thing on 18 to me was your approach shot, 212.  Tell me about the line you took there.
RYAN ARMOUR: Not going to lie.  Probably got a little further right than I wanted.  It was one of those just start it in the middle of the green.  If the wind touches it, I knew I had enough to cover the greenside bunker.  So you had some room behind the pin, and I just tried to hoist a 4-hybrid up in the air and kind of let the wind do its thing.
Q. Knowing that there will be some weather and temperature issues later in the next week, how important was it to get a good number here in the first round?
RYAN ARMOUR: It's always important, I mean, disregarding the weather.  But I saw that stuff.  It's coming.  We were talking about it today with Matt and Ricky.  To get off to a good start can only help.
Q. You've had a little bit of a resurgence.  What do you put that down to?
RYAN ARMOUR: I don't know.  Kind of back to basics, what I believe in.  Feel like every time I start playing poor it's me trying to get longer and stronger.  I'm not a guy -- I'm a guy who needs to hit fairways and greens and put the onus on my putter.
That's where my teacher Jason Carbone has done such a good job of let's get a game plan going for the next few years, not a quick fix type thing.
We're just trying to implement it six weeks at a time or eight weeks at time, whenever I get to see him.  He's done a really, really good job.
Q. When it comes to a the Fall Series, a lot of guys in the field are rookies.  You take anybody under your wing?
RYAN ARMOUR: Oh, I don't know about that.  You see them.  I had to play the Web finals so I saw a bunch of those guys.  You know, trying to think who are rookies this year.  Help me out.
Q. Sam Ryder, Stephan Jaeger.
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, I see Stephan.  I don't know Sam.  I've seen Stephan in the locker room.  I mean, these guys, yeah, they're rookies, but they're not.  They've played competitive golf for so long and at such a high level that I'm not shocked when rookies play well.
Q. You mentioned trying to overdo things, because you see these guys coming out of Web or right out of college with these massive drives.
RYAN ARMOUR: Uh-huh.
Q. What does that to your psyche?  Is that something you just have to block out?
RYAN ARMOUR: I think as I get older I am able to block it out.  In my mid-30s I struggled with the whole distance thing.  Like I'm watching guys hit it 30, 40 by me and I'm like, How am I going to compete?
You know, me trying to get longer affected everything else in my game.  My iron shots were closer; I was missing more fairways.  I'm not one who can play out of the rough and get it close to the hole.
I needed to go back to what I had always done my whole career, which was hit fairways, hit greens, and put the pressure on my putter to get it done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT