NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2017
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Peter, can you talk about closing up the leaderboard today?  
RYAN ARMOUR: My caddy and I talked on the range about how with the rain you had to be aggressive and you could start flying at some things that you normally couldn't and on the front nine I struck the ball really well and turned at five.  But could have been better.  And then the back nine kind of hung on at the end there.  But it beats you up.  I'm tired and cold.  It's rainy.   
 Q.  Any big shots that kept you going?  
RYAN ARMOUR: The save on 14 probably is great momentum.  Golf is still a sport and sports have momentum, and to make that putt on 14 was very big, little five-footer down the hill.  I wish I would have made the 9 or 10-footer I had on 17 to be bogey free.  But if I can go around here in 65, I'll be happy for the rest of my life.   
 Q.  Playing on Sunday is that something that's cool for you to be able to do?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Definitely.  I mean I graduated from here.  I got a lot of arms on the old Scarlet.  The new Scarlet not so many.  You see familiar faces, Mark Lucas and Brian Kelly and everyone here do such a good job the way they treat us and it's good to finally put some good rounds together.   
 Q.  Two weekends in a row you'll be up there on the leaderboard the final day.  Does that get easier?  Were you at all uncomfortable in that position at Wyndham?  
RYAN ARMOUR: No.  Not at all actually.  I only had one choice to win.  It was pretty much win or second.  So I was firing at everything and trying to birdie every hole.  So I wasn't uncomfortable because you had such a laser focus of what you needed to get done.  And today was very similar feeling of just trying to birdie as many as I could.   
 Q.  Is there anything that in the morning you're going to try to sharpen in your game for tomorrow?  
RYAN ARMOUR: I'll just do the same warmup, same routine I've been doing.   
 Q.  Some people like when they play in front of a home crowd there may be an added pressure.  Do you have that like in a way where you may want it too much?  
RYAN ARMOUR: I think we all do.  I think in every sport when you play at home, you want to please the home fans.  It's learning how to accept it, and some weeks I haven't accepted it and this week I seem to accept it.  Form counts, too.  I came in here playing well, so that really helps a lot.   
 Q.  You talked at Wyndham about making a list for the first time this season.  Did you do a similar thing this week?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Oh, yeah.  Definitely.  I won't tell you what's on it, but I did it.  Very similar to what was on Wyndham.  A little less focus on golf and more on exercise and eating.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT