NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2017
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Having played here a lot before, does that help?
RYAN ARMOUR: You know, it's a redesign.  So when I was in school -- it still hasn't changed that much that if you're short of the hole, it's fine.  Anything from underneath, you can get up and down.  You start getting hole high or past hole high, it gets a little dicey.  So we've been kind of clubbing short most of the week.  So far it's worked.
Q. You had missed, I know, six cuts here in a row.
RYAN ARMOUR: Oh, really?  Thanks for bringing that up.  I didn't even know.  All right!
Q. In the past like what do you think it has been here that has been holding you back?
RYAN ARMOUR: Probably driving the golf ball.  I mean you have to get it in the fairway.  If you don't hit it in the fairway, you can't attack any hole location, yet alone maybe even get it on the green.  So you have to drive it straight.
Q. And with coming off Wyndham you had a good week there, tied for the lead late on Sunday.  What's I guess kind of clicked lately that's helped you get here?
RYAN ARMOUR: Just the process my teacher and I have been working on.  We're trying to get better every day, and sometimes it clicks, sometimes it doesn't.  We really noticed something about six weeks ago in putting setup that helped a lot at Wyndham.  And then we're trying to get better every day.  That's all I can say.
Q. How was that in Wyndham, being in that moment?
RYAN ARMOUR: Oh, you love it.  That's why you play.  You want to be in the heat all the time.  We play to compete and to win golf tournaments, and to get that rush that every shot really, really matters, a lot versus some don't matter so much, like if you're off the wrong tee on Sunday.  But to have the heat, that's why we play.
Q. And with these finals, you've played in them before, how would you describe the approach to these four weeks?
RYAN ARMOUR: It's a marathon.  It's four separate golf tournaments, but it's a marathon.  That I know if you put a six in front of every score, you're going to end up all right.
Q. I'm sure you talk about this every time you're here, but what does it mean to compete here and be back here?
RYAN ARMOUR: I love it.  I mean it's home.  I was here five years, and Coach Brown is still here and friends, I got friends in the area still.  The athletic department still supports all the ex-athletes.  So it's just -- it's a pretty special place.
Q. Did you get a lot of sleep last night?
RYAN ARMOUR: I did.  You know, I have to admit, I went to bed at halftime.  So when I woke up, I was like, whoa, all right.  They put the pedal down.
Q. How did you feel at halftime?  Feel good?
RYAN ARMOUR: I thought they just had to make some adjustments.  I don't know what they ended up doing.  I don't know if, you know, they kind of backed off the man press that they were playing.  I don't know what happened.  So I'll have to go watch it on the iPad later today.
Q. Looking at your Twitter page, it says you golfed with Clark Kellogg earlier, last week I think?
RYAN ARMOUR: Monday, Double Eagle, yeah.
Q. What was that experience like?
RYAN ARMOUR: It was great.  Clark is great.  Copart and Nationwide Children's do such a good job up at Double Eagle and raise so much money, and Clark as the emcee, he's just great to be around.  He makes everybody feel welcome, not just fellow Buckeyes.
Q. What kind of golfer is he?
RYAN ARMOUR: He's pretty good.  He's probably around 8 or 10.  He's pretty good.  He gets after it from he was telling me as soon as the Final Four is done, he'll play a lot from May through the end of September.
Q. And I just wonder looking on your career, you've bounced back and forth a lot.  What's kept you going?  What keeps you -- is it the love of the game?
RYAN ARMOUR: Pretty much.  I mean I love to compete.  I mean you know, this is a good job.  I mean a lot of people look at it negatively and you're away from home.  I look at it, no, I'm home a lot.  Like I have 20 weeks off a year where I can go to every practice, every game, every school event.  Yeah, there are weeks I miss stuff, but there's -- you know, growing up, my parents weren't at everything.  And they were -- you know, they were there every day.  So I just love competing and playing and I want to just keep getting better.
Q. And this is an obvious question.  The weather is a little bit different than yesterday.  How did that impact you at all or how did that change today compared to yesterday?
RYAN ARMOUR: I took a lot of conservative lines into the green.  I just -- I wasn't firing at many flags, especially on the back nine.  I kept getting some awkward numbers where I was in between clubs, and I was just trying to play away from them, and I was actually playing away from them too far.  It's probably just a more conservative outlook for me that I won't attack as much.
Q. When you told me in Panama, one of my favorite quotes ever is about believing in the process.  The process will get you there and sticking to that.  Does that maintain even on the times earlier in the season when you were struggling?
RYAN ARMOUR: I think that's when you forget it.  You forget to believe, hey, you're working on the right stuff, you're exercising correcting.  You're getting healthy.  You're getting the right amount of sleep.  It's all a process of as I get into my 40s that I have to watch.  If I believe in it and stick to it, I mean it's shown, it's successful.
Q. And the times you have to kick yourself into gear, like I need to get back to this?
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah.  I mean it's tough.  I mean we're running around the country, and you know, I got two little ones at home that I love playing outside all day with and sometimes neglect to take care of yourself first.  That's just the way it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT