WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2017
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ryan, let's talk about the bogey-free 61.  It was so much fun to watch you hit those shots.  Was that the best round you played on the PGA TOUR?  
RYAN ARMOUR: It has to be.  Yeah, someone just told me 63 was my career low.  Just felt -- everything was in rhythm.  That was the most important key.   
Started back on 17, I started to hit some really, really good shots before I made the turn.  17, I flew it in the hole, it bounced out and didn't make the 8-footer.  18, I got lucky, ran one up there to three feet.   
Kind of got some momentum going there and, you know, I wish I would have made the close one on No. 1 but, you know, I made some others that haven't been going in.  I'm happy.   
 Q.  That 63 was 2008, US Bank Championship in Milwaukee.  You only missed one green today, yesterday 16 of 18.  Proximity was 18 feet to the hole today.  
 Ryan, what have you discovered this week?   
RYAN ARMOUR: Rhythm.  PXG and True Temper put some new shafts in on Tuesday to kick up my ball flight a little bit.  Just allowed me to not go after shots as hard as I have been.   
Now the ball is getting up in the air a little better and it allows me to keep the rhythm that I want.  I don't want to go after shots hard and hit everything full.  I want to hit -- be a shotmaker out there and hit little 6-iron and little 4-iron and not always have to hit the full shot.   
 Q.  You came in 187 in FedExCup Points and now projected to be well within the Top 25 if you maintain your first place status.  This could turn the whole season around.  
RYAN ARMOUR: It could.  Could turn your life around.  I had some goals at the beginning of the week.  I knew where I stood and, you know, right now the goals are attainable.  Thursday and Friday are over for me but, you know, there's a long road Saturday and Sunday.   
 Q.  Excited about this weekend.  You haven't been in this position a lot.  You've been out here along time.  
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah.  It's time to get those juices going again.   
 Q.  It was a pleasure to watch you today.  I don't see many rounds like that that good.  
RYAN ARMOUR: Thank you.   
 Q.  Ryan, career low today.  You said it was the rhythm.  Talk a little bit what else is going right for you.  
RYAN ARMOUR: The rhythm set it all up.  I was able to drive it in the fairway which gives you the opportunity to be aggressive with these hole locations here and just -- I'm not too worried about hitting shots hard.   
I was able to be a shotmaker out there again and I felt like last week or two weeks ago in Reno where there's elevation I hit stuff way up in the air to take advantage of the elevation and here I feel a little more at home.   
 Q.  Let's talk about Sedgefield and the course and what sets up well for your game.  
RYAN ARMOUR: I think you have to drive it straight.  That's something I've done well all year.  But, you got to be patient to where you can go flag hunting but you still got to be aware you can't be going through the greens.  You got to stay below the holes and, for the most part, I was able to do that.   
 Q.  Ryan, talk about your year a little bit.  You started with a new caddy in Dallas; is that right?  And then got -- did pretty well, T27 or something like that.  
 Again got a sponsor's exemption into the Memorial to play in front of some family.  That must have been fun.   
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah.  Anytime you can go home and being a Buckeye playing in Mr. Nicklaus's tournament it's a special honor to be there.  We've been with my new caddy since Byron Nelson.   
 Q.  Did that give you a little bit of wind in your sails to get the endorsement from Mr. Nicklaus?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Of course it does.  I always looked up to him when I was growing up and still do and being a fellow Buckeye, it's great to be there.   
 Q.  Your number and all that, lot of people are focused on their number this week.  Focus much on that?  
RYAN ARMOUR: I can.  Either win or go to the Web Finals for me.  It's just go out and, you know, try to win today, have fun, execute golf shots and see what happens.   
 Q.  Last time you had a 61?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Been awhile.  It's been awhile.   
 Q.  You've been even playing --  
RYAN ARMOUR: Back at home, yeah.  This winter, probably.   
 Q.  Where are you based out of between?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Jupiter.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your team?  
RYAN ARMOUR: My wife is here, Erin, she's phenomenal.  She ran ten miles today in this heat, by the way.  My caddy, Jason Kellough is here and then Jason Carbone work with at Baltusrol, great instructor.  He's not here this week but he's been nothing but great for me.   
 Q.  Ryan, your 61 today, was there a point today either when you woke up and warming up or on a specific hole you really had it going out there?  
RYAN ARMOUR: No.  I wish I could pinpoint that but anytime you turn in 5-under -- I just hit really, really solid golf shots from about the 13th hole through the 18th hole and you know, I exploded the cup on 17 and don't make birdie.  18, I roll it up there to like that and 1 I hit it to about five feet and miss it.   
It was just like okay, things are going, you can be a little aggressive.  I started looking at more flags.   
 Q.  Ryan, how hard is it to carry it over to tomorrow?  
RYAN ARMOUR: We'll see.  I don't know.  It's always -- how do you follow-up a real low one?  Try to do what you did.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Your wife run ten more miles tomorrow?  
RYAN ARMOUR: She's off on the weekends.  She's training for the New York City Marathon.   
 Q.  Did you already book your plane reservations for going to Ohio and --  
RYAN ARMOUR: I didn't book any plane reservations.   
 Q.  Just playing it as it comes?  
RYAN ARMOUR: It will be fine.   
 Q.  What's your history like on this course?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Geez, I think I've been here three times.  I don't think I've even made a cut.  No, I haven't been here three times.  I've been here twice.  I can't remember, actually.  I'm sorry.  I think I missed the cut in '15, missed the cut in '08.  So, '07 I think it was at another place.   
 Q.  What's been historically your favorite course on Tour?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Right now this is.   
 Q.  Before this.  
RYAN ARMOUR: Probably Peeble.  Just the history and the scenic beauty of it.  But, it's tough.  I grew up at Firestone.  I never played that event.  If I could ever get in that event that would be great.   
 Q.  You can run a few miles.  
RYAN ARMOUR: Right now, I don't know.  It's pretty hot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT