THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2019
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RYAN ARMOUR: It's fun playing with Tiger.  We're the same age, and he's kind of beat us up for how many years now, 30?  But it's fun playing with Tiger.  It's a lot better to play with him than the group in front of him.  So anytime you're playing with him, you can look back and say at least I was doing something right that week.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RYAN ARMOUR: First time since the Junior.  We did play in college.  But really probably since --   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
RYAN ARMOUR: No.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your round?  
RYAN ARMOUR: It was all right.  It was all right.  Had a little trouble with distance control early.  And then, I tell you what, the greens are about a foot faster than they were Thursday, Friday.  So it will be interesting what happens with the leaders and how fast they adjust.  They've got a little bounce to them, not too much.  It's not so much the that, but they do have more pace.  They haven't quite got purple yet, but I know that's the way Mr. Nicklaus would like to get them.  But they are a little quicker today.   
 Q.  Do you notice anything different from -- in Tiger's game from the tournament in the fall and September to now?  I realize he went on a win right after that.  Does it look the same?  Anything I can decipher?  
RYAN ARMOUR: What I've noticed more since he came back from this injury, he hits a lot more controlled shots.  He was always the greatest iron player in the world.  But now he's hitting like controlled drivers, and controlled 3-woods.  It's not lash at it and try and hit it as far as you can.  I think he kind of checked that ego a little bit.  All you've got to do is get him in the fairway, and as good as his iron game is, he's going to play well.   
 Q.  You're doing your thing but did you sense something, maybe a special number coming out of that as you were watching him play?  
RYAN ARMOUR: You don't know around here.  I had joked with my caddie on 2 green that I was going to go over and slap him if he holed the bunker shot.  He holed on 1 and lipped it out on 2.  He's hitting it all over the map and ending up 2-under.  You never know.  Golf goes ebb and flow, and especially out there we call it caddie nightmare days.  You just can't figure out how strong the wind is.  You can kind of get the direction right now, but gusting just enough to put that little bit of doubt in your head.  You really just can't tell.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be able to throw up an O-H at a golf tournament?  
RYAN ARMOUR: I love it.  I wish I would have made that chip-in on 16, but to roll in a birdie on 12 and get the crowd kind of going with the O-H-I-O was pretty fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT