SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2018
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Like to welcome Ryan Armour to the interview room here at the Sanderson Farms Championship.  Defending champion from last year.  You've had an amazing year since then.  A lot of firsts for you.  Just talk about coming back here as defending champion and how different it feels, if indeed it does.  I'm sure it probably does.   
RYAN ARMOUR: It does.  I mean, I don't know what the right word is.  Very gracious for everything the Sanderson family has done.  Steve Jent runs a great event here as a tournament director.  Very grateful that I have the chance to be here.  It's been kind of a whirlwind coming from Asia, so I'm a little tired.   
But we're going to try and give it a go tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Well coming from Asia, that's some the benefits from winning and climbing your way up the FedExCup standings.  You got to playoffs for the first time in your career.  You made it through three playoff events.  You got to play a couple major championships.  What's that year been like since winning?   
RYAN ARMOUR: There were a lot of firsts.  I played the first event of the FedEx back in '07 at Westchester.  I had never made it past that first round.  To get to that third round, I really wanted to get to Eastlake for the FedExCup finale.  I was a little disappointed with that.  I didn't deserve it.  I didn't play very well.   
Overall, the year was definitely gratifying.  You put a lot of work in, as all of us do, and to finally reap the benefits of all that hard work and sacrifice that your wife and kids give up, not just yourself, it's definitely gratifying.   
THE MODERATOR: Just before we take questions, the reaction from your peers throughout the year.  Has there been a different sort of feeling from you from the reaction now that you're a winner?   
RYAN ARMOUR: A few guys.  You know, Hey, what's going on?  What do you do to turn your career around?  I mean, there was no like light switch.  I wish I could think of this one time that something happened, but it really was a process of just being fed up with being average and going to my teacher and putting all the kind of faith in him.  Saying, Hey, make me better.  If you want me to do something that's going to take time, I'll give you that time.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  How has the jet lag been and what time were you up this morning?  
RYAN ARMOUR: I got up about 12:30.  I thought coming here I would feel great.  When I landed I felt okay around 5:30 yesterday, and had some dinner and then went to bed around 9:00, 9:30.  I was like, Perfect.  I'll sleep until about 4:30 and get up for the pro-am at 7:10.  Lo and behold, 12:25 I look at my phone and I'm like, Are you serious?   
I just got up.  Finally at 3:00 I just went down to the gym and just started running.   
 Q.  How far?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Six miles.   
THE MODERATOR: And then played the pro-am.   
RYAN ARMOUR: And then played the pro-am.  I'm going to go take a nap right now after this, after I do something else.   
 Q.  You chased this thing a long time.  Was there certain points, I mean, ten years into it, that you thought, I can't get over this hump; maybe I should do something else with my life?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, I mean, there were times.  I don't know what else I would do.  I mean, playing golf for a living is a pretty good gig.  There has never been -- there have been very few days where I get up and say, Oh, I got to go to work.  I enjoy what I do and enjoy to play.  I played a lot of tournaments last year and I'm going to play a lot again this year.   
I enjoy competing, and I think the only time where it really got close to hanging it up was probably 2012, 2013 just because I really didn't know what I was doing, I mean, golf-wise.  I was hitting it so poorly.  For me to start driving it off line, I mean, I can't compete if I drive it off line.   
 Q.  Obviously you used the win last year to springboard to a solid season.  What do you think was the biggest benefit of that?  Was it just the security of knowing you were in tournaments?  You know what I mean?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, I think it was.  I really do.  I think access is a big thing out here.  You know, that's another reason I played a lot of tournaments.  I hadn't had access like that in ten years.  These guys playing here this week out of the Web.com category, you know, they don't have access to all the events.   
They have to play well.  You know, once you do get that win you get that access for two years, and I'm going to try and take advantage of it.   
 Q.  Do you get the feel -- you've been out here a few times -- that it's kind of a springboard tournament?  A lot of guys, there are nine former winners, guys trying to get their shot, this is one they say, Hey, I can maybe win this one.  
RYAN ARMOUR: I think we all go into every tournament thinking we're going to win it.  Just happens this is opposite the WGC, and that this gives a lot more opportunity to guys who aren't getting in all the events.   
So I think that's why you do see some surprise winners.   
 Q.  What's your teacher's name?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Jason Carbone, Baltusrol Golf Club in Jersey.   
 Q.  Close of the season you played with Tiger in the second to last round.  Just wondering, was it the first time you guys have been paired together since the junior?  
RYAN ARMOUR: We played together in college once, but it was actually pretty funny on the first tee.  I'm like, Hey, what's up, man?  He's like, It's about time.  So it was good.  We enjoyed the day.   
Tiger has been nothing but class every time I've been around him.  You know, I have a lot of respect for him not just because of how many tournaments he's won, but what he does for the PGA TOUR and what he's done for this game.   
 Q.  You said there was something magical about what you have done to suddenly be more consistent, but have you thought about it at all like what are some the things I'm doing right every week or when something's really wrong, what's wrong?  
RYAN ARMOUR: I think that's probably a better way to look at it.  Like I can kind of feel what I'm doing wrong at certain times.  You know, I have these little triggers that I'm like, Okay, I know if I do this it's going right.  If I do that, it's a pull.   
Yeah, I know what's causing those shots more now than I ever did.   
 Q.  Were these your first times competing in Asia?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Yes, in those events.  I had been to Japan before, but never to Korea or Malaysia.   
 Q.  Ever play the Asian Tour?  
RYAN ARMOUR: No, I did not.   
 Q.  When did you play the Minor League Tour?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Oh, jeez.  I still play it.  I mean, yeah, I use it as tune up events at times.  They're one-day events right around my home, and you got to go play good.  I mean, you better shoot 65 or better or you're not going to win.   
 Q.  Just guessing you've never had a comfortable commute to one tournament to the other.  
RYAN ARMOUR: No.  This is a first definitely.  I think is there three of us in the field?   
 Q.  I think you and Sungjae...  
RYAN ARMOUR: And Brian Stuard.  I think we're the only ones trying to do it.  Brian, it's funny, Brian was same pro-am time of the back and I was off the front today.  We were talking and I asked him, What time did you wake up today?  He said, 2:15.  So we're both kind of struggling with it.   
 Q.  I remember talking to you right after you finished as runner-up at Quicken Loans.  You were very excited about moving on to Carnoustie for the Open Championship which you had qualified for, your first major.  Can you just talk about that experience going to Scotland?  
RYAN ARMOUR: I loved it.  I think it's just the neatest tournament in the world.  It's just golf.  There is nothing manufactured.  They let the elements kind of dictate it.  I wish I would've played better.  I had a tough draw.   
But I wish I was going over there in top form, but I would love another crack.  I really enjoyed playing over there.   
 Q.  This week back on the golf course you've won on.  
RYAN ARMOUR: Right.   
 Q.  Even though you were half asleep this morning, how does it feel to get back out on this course?  
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, I mean, it was funny.  Casey Kellogg, my caddie and I were talking over various shots.  It was like, Hey, didn't we hit 4-iron every day here last year, or didn't we lay up with 3-iron here every day, stuff that just triggered memories.   
They're good memories.  I mean, for once, it's not the bad memories that a lot of us golfers carry around.   
 Q.  Where is trophy?  
RYAN ARMOUR: It's at home.   
 Q.  Displayed prominently?  
RYAN ARMOUR: It was for a while.  It was up in the TV case, and then, what was it?  I got back from Philly, from BMW, and my wife had moved it into the bar area of the house.  She's always redecorating.  Hopefully there are more to come.   
 Q.  What's the one biggest way life has changed being a winner?  
RYAN ARMOUR: I think going to Maui for the tournament.  Being able to take my kids, my parents, in-laws, for that trip, I mean, I think that was probably the coolest thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT