SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 4, 2018
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good solid day.  Bogey-free, 71.  Highlighted by back-to-back birdies at 9 and 10.
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, it was hard out there.  Putting was especially difficult.  I felt like you just were getting blown around, especially in the open parts of the golf course.  I would have loved to have made that on 18, but I'll take it.  Bogey-free here, first time ever, very happy with it.
Q. Highlighted there with the putt on 18.  That was cruel.  That touched a lot of hole not to go in.  Anything surprising out there?  I know this is the first time around competitively on this golf course.  I'm sure you saw it earlier this week.  But were there some surprises out there on certain parts of the golf course?
RYAN ARMOUR: Not so much tee to green.  It was how well the ground staff had got the course in shape, because when we got here it was pretty rough.  The greens were rolling pretty good.  I know I was the first group out so no one walked on them.  But they rolled all right, it was really difficult to get solid footing in the wind while you were putting and judging how much break to play.
Q. Just talk about, a lot has been made of this being the youngest ever field at the Sentry Tournament of Champions, but you being a first time veteran here, just comment about that means to you to make it.
RYAN ARMOUR: I love it.  This is the first time in my life I'm the oldest at anything, so I think this is great.  I found out maybe Tuesday or Wednesday from Ross that I'm two days older than Perez.  So we were, Perez and I, were joking about it at the hotel and he was kind of upset because he wanted to be the oldest.  But it's first time ever, I've never been the oldest at anything.
Q. Your thoughts on the golf course and your opening round?
RYAN ARMOUR: I wish I could have got some more coming in, especially 15 and 18.  I had looks and didn't make them, but I didn't make a bogey today.  I hit it solid, I gave myself some chances, not enough, but we'll get up there and work on the putting green and figure it out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT