SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2017
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the putt on 18 for par, just how good it was to see that drop in for you.
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, it's big.  It was tough to judge.  Vaughn and I both lipped those 60-footers way short.  With the shadows coming over from the grandstands we couldn't really tell if it was up or down, couldn't tell the grain, anything, so we both left them woefully short.  To make it is huge.
Q. One you did not leave short was on 16.  Just tell me about that; 57 feet going down.
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, I mean, you don't plan on making those.  As Vaughn said when we were walking to 17, he goes, That was in from the minute you hit it.
Hey, I'll take it.  You don't plan on them but definitely take them.
Q. What is it about that stretch of holes?  That's two days in a row you've birdied 13 through 16.
RYAN ARMOUR: I don't know.  You get some wedges in your hand on 14 and 15, so you're looking to make up some grouped there.
13 is a good little par-3.  Just have had good numbers there the last two days.
Then 16, chip-in yesterday, 60-footer today.
Yeah, you don't plan on that.
Q. Speaking of plans.  I'm sure you're not going to change any plans, are you, for tomorrow?
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, you know, it's been going good.  Hit fairways, hit greens, make putts.  Seems to work.
Q. I'm sure you had many weather days like this back home in Cleveland.
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah.
Q. Did that help you a lot, that you weren't really -- I mean, it was cold.
RYAN ARMOUR: It was cold.  I mean, when we got here it was cold this morning.  Once you got moving, as long as you can keep blowing on your hands, everything is all right.
If you have to stand still and the wind hits you and the sun goes behind the clouds it can cut right through you.
Q. Considering how cold it was out here, the wind picking up, how happy are you with the way you played?
RYAN ARMOUR: Oh, I'm ecstatic.  There was a tough stretch in the middle of the front nine there where missed three 16 footers in a row.  Hole locations were hard and tough to read.
Kind of caught fire on the back nine there and made five birdies.  I'm ecstatic.
Q. You went on a tear on the back nine.  I think it was 10, that putt from the fringe.  That must have given you some momentum for those birdies consecutive, and then on the 16th hole, the 60-foot putt, what did you see on that?
RYAN ARMOUR: Not much.  It was pretty far away.  I know it was moving.  I don't know how far -- my caddie said I would've had six or seven feet coming back.  Hit right in the middle of the hole and went down.  What are you going to do?
Q. Just being on the back nine and how well you've played, was there ever any nerves creeping into your mind at that point?
RYAN ARMOUR: I don't know.  It's kind of is nervy day to begin with.  It's cold and blowing and the greens are slick now.  They are a foot faster than they were yesterday.
You just kind of stick with what you're doing, hit fairways, hit greens, and see what happens.
Q. Yesterday when we talked you said you got to stick to your game plan.  How the heck do you do that when you're in the final group on Sunday, all things considered?
RYAN ARMOUR: You just try.  I mean, you're not always going to be able to, but my strength is - obviously have figured this out finally - is driving it in the fairway, hitting it on the green, and trying to make putts.
I don't overpower a golf course.  I don't go for very many par-5s.  I had a chance to go for No. 11 and I laid up.  It's just one of those making percentage choices for me.
Q. Don't be too aggressive?
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah.
Q. You talk about that process.  Are you a fairly disciplined person by nature, or is that something you're starting to notice as you get older?
RYAN ARMOUR: I think the kids have helped me become more disciplined.  I mean, back coming out of college you thought you could do everything, and now with the kids getting up as early as they do and wanting to be such a part of their life, I want to have energy throughout the whole day.
To bed early, up early.  I think that's part of the discipline that it's kind of helping me on the golf course.
Q. How old are the kids?
RYAN ARMOUR: Nine and six.
Q. One had a birthday today?
RYAN ARMOUR: Today, yeah.
Q. What's his...
RYAN ARMOUR: Patrick, and then Nicholas is six.
Q. You mentioned you were laying up on the Par 5.  Sometimes that takes a lot of discipline.  That's why I asked the question.  And trying to get that to transfer to your game.  You think that's a big factor?
RYAN ARMOUR: I do.  I think it just comes from everything.  You know, I'm happy where I'm at with my family, with my caddie, happy with my instructor, parents are doing healthy finally.
Everything kind of is falling in place.
Q. When you're putting like you did today, what's going right for you?  Is it something you're doing adjustment-wise or...
RYAN ARMOUR: You know, a lot of it was just speed.  You had putts that you knew the speed was going to be -- I didn't have to do much on some of those putts.  I just had to get it going and it would go in.
Those are bonuses, and I'll take them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT