SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2017
Ryan Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's talk about the second round.  Hot start.  Tough to duplicate that, isn't it?
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, I know, I wish I could have kept it going on the other side.  Just speed of the greens got away from me a little bit, and I kept being one or two revolutions short on the birdie putts I had.
Then I drove it in the rough a little bit on that side, too.  So getting a which with some pars, I feel blessed right now.
Q. You started your inward nine, that front nine, finding fairways.  It was late when you missed the fairways and paid the price here on No. 8.
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, definitely.  It's hit or miss.  It's the common bermuda where it's dormant and you can get a really good lie or you can get a really bad lie.  The one on 8 was really poor.
We did a good job actually judging the distance.  I just pulled it a little and had a really difficult up and down there.
Q. That was just one blip on what has been a great two rounds for you.  Talk about being in that position.
RYAN ARMOUR: Yeah, I'll take it.  Oh, I love it.  I love it.  That's why we play.  I don't know what the forecast is in store for tomorrow.  I'm sure it's going to be chilly.  But it's fun.  This is why we play.
Q. You followed up a 66 with a 68 today.  Given the way the course was playing with the wind that picked up and how difficult the greens are, how satisfied are you with this round?
RYAN ARMOUR: I'm happy.  Wish I could have got a few more coming in on the inward nine.  To get off to the start I had, I didn't expect that with the way it was blowing.  I didn't see very many low numbers in the morning.
So I'm happy.  I'm in the lead going into Saturday, and we'll see what happens.
Q. You talked about not overpowering the course.  When you're playing your best golf, what do you do out there on the course?
RYAN ARMOUR: Definitely hitting fairways, which out here is a must.  I drove it kind of poor for me coming on the last few holes and paid the price with a bogey on 8.
Giving myself as many opportunities as I can to make birdies.  It's hard to read the greens here, but if you give yourself enough chances you're going to make some.
Q. Tomorrow the winds is going to be coming from a different direction.  It will be cold out there.  Being in the position you are, how comfortable are you and how do you have to play?  What have you learned from the past about being here?
RYAN ARMOUR: You know, I think it's just stick to the game plan that we have.  It's fairways, greens, give yourself chances.  No matter if it's cold or hot, if the scores are going crazy, just give yourself as many opportunities as you can to be successful.
Q. I just wanted to ask you a little bit more about the expected weather and how you prepare for it.
RYAN ARMOUR: Uh-huh.
Q. Are you a good cold-weather player?
RYAN ARMOUR: I grew up in Ohio, so it's not exactly warm.  I'm spoiled now in South Florida that I haven't been around it, but once you get going -- the hardest part about cold weather is starting.  Once you're out there in the mix it kind of goes away.
But, you know, you'll have to adjust.  The ball is not going to carry as far.  You may be hitting one or two more clubs into some holes that today you were hitting -- say you were hitting a wedge on a hole; you're probably hitting 7- or 8-iron in tomorrow.
With a north wind -- I think we had a north wind Monday in the Pro-Am.  Did we?  No, we didn't.  I can't remember.  Is the wind coming out of the north?  I would guess if it's going to be cold, then I would imagine it's out of the north.
We'll adjust.  My caddie is good at gauging the wind.  I'll lean on him.
Q. When you played in Ohio growing up there, you play in 30 degree weather just to play golf?
RYAN ARMOUR: 30?  No.
Q. 40?
RYAN ARMOUR: It was great.  I had two seasons, Easter to Halloween was golf, and Halloween to Easter was basketball.  I had two seasons.  It wasn't spring, summer, fall, winter.  Those were my two seasons.  It was great.
I loved putting the clubs away for that amount of time and never having to play.
Q. I was reading something about your career.  I know there were some lean years a couple years ago.  Obviously you've had a resurgence.  What's changed?  Why are you playing so well lately?
RYAN ARMOUR: I wish I could pinpoint it.  I have a really good teacher, good caddie, great wife.
My teacher, Jason car bone, has developed a game plan for us that I'm trying to stick to.  Then, you know, just being more comfortable with myself.  I have two sons who love me, a wife who puts up with me, and everything from there is gravy.
Q. It's got to be gratifying coming out here and being 41.  A lot of these guys out here are 23, 24.
RYAN ARMOUR: I mean, I feel better at 41 than I did at 31.  The way we take care of ourselves now is a lot different than when I first turned pro at age 23.  We thought we could burn the midnight oil; you don't do that anymore.
With nutrition and fitness and everything it's definitely a lot different.
Q. Do you have a pretty stringent routine, fitness routine?
RYAN ARMOUR: No, I wouldn't call it stringent.  I just try and be active.  I've got two young boys, so I'm outside all the time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT