NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 27, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Every once in a while there will be a specific call to anchor us.   But it's taken time to allow everybody's strengths to come to the forefront, without it being a my turn, your turn deal. 

Q.   Erik, the Pacers talked about LeBron being down low and way too many dribbles and too much time down low to get those high‑percentage shots.   What kind of judgments do you expect they will make to not LeBron to do that? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Probably try to take the ball out of his hands.   Again, that's an element of our game.   We're not dependent on that.   Our game is an attack aggressive game to find opportunities to get into the paint, at the rim, at the free‑throw line, and there are several different ways we can attack to get to that. 
Overall, there was more of a commitment and a poise to not settle.   We settled in the first two games, and for better or worse, us executing and getting to other layers turned out more efficient last night. 

Q.   In your experience, is there ever any carry‑over from one playoff game to the next playoff game? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Not much.   When you've been in situations where you've been able to advance, you know how fragile it is in the playoffs and how the tide can turn very quickly. 
So we know that we dropped one at home.   And we all lamented that for 48 hours.   We didn't close out that game the way we wanted to.   We wanted to come out here in Game 3 and get that back. 
Now we start to see we have an opportunity now to control the series.   And we know that winning in this building and trying to do that another time is going to be extremely challenging.   So we have to have a quick memory. 

Q.   Do you find that you try not to anticipate and adjust from what the other team is going to do, just keep it to what you are doing? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   That's part of it.   The most important thing for us‑‑ and we've said this all year long‑‑ is getting to our identity, and who can impose their identity more consistently on the other team has a better chance to win.   Our identities are slightly different, but whether they make adjustments or not, we will still try to get to that game.   We were able to get to that more consistently in Game 3.   Game 2 we weren't, and they won.   That's probably the bigger storyline. 

Q.   You guys shoot a lot of threes normally.   That's what you like to do.   Did you get the three attempts you wanted last night? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Better opportunities.   And that's again getting to the identity of attacking, being more committed, not settling, not letting the defense off the hook with a quick long two or even a quick three that they did not have to defend. 
We don't know whether open shots will become available until you start to execute and do it with precision and focus.   That was better last night. 

Q.   Ball movement was getting strong and weak and back to strong, the way you like it? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   That's‑‑ we're more of a rhythm flow team.   It takes all five guys being committed to that for us to get to that rhythm.   We're at our best when more guys are involved.   Our three‑point shooters are open, but they don't create the open shots on their own.   There has to be attackers being committed, not settling, not letting the defense off the hook.   And then the ball moves from there. 
Everybody gets to be a recipient of that ball movement and that flow. 

Q.   What has been Chris Bosh's role in this series? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   To be our most important player, the way he always is.   He allows it all to work because of his versatility.   So when we need to make adjustments and put players in different spots, he's usually the one who has to adjust.   We put him in all regions on the court.   Sometimes at the elbow, sometimes in the post, sometimes down in the three‑point line.   He makes it look a lot easier than it is.   He has to be big for us. 
That front line is still pummelling us.   We understand it.   It's big.   They're powerful.   They don't let you off the hook.   They put us in compromising positions where we're fouling right now or giving up second‑chance opportunities. 
So he's giving us a lot.   And we're going to need more from everybody, particularly tomorrow in this building, knowing that they'll feel how we felt coming after Game 2. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT