NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 23, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Today was just getting back to work.   We have to push to get to another level.   It was a very competitive game.   Both teams were laying it all out there.   We're trying to push to another level that we think we can get to, and we'll need to in this series. 

Q.   Coach Vogel said he feels he's almost encouraged by this game because he knows they can do so much more than what they've shown in the first game. 
Do you sort of feel that way also, that that game, even though you escaped there, that there's another level of Miami Heat that can be there and has to be there? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yes.   We have to continue to push forward and evolve.   We improved a little bit in the last series, but we're still pushing for the next level or two that we feel we can get to.   We haven't gotten there yet. 
That's taking nothing away from Indiana.   I'm sure they feel the same way.   But we've been pushing for this the entire playoffs.   We haven't gotten there yet, and we're going to need to in this series. 

Q.   (Indiscernible) is it a comfort to continue to‑‑
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It has nothing to do with it.   That's the past.   We're dealing with what we have to right now.   We have to play better in this series.   To be able to win in this series, we have to get to another level. 

Q.   What is the next level? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Defensively the activity level was there.   The discipline and the focus is not where it needed to be.   Offensively some of the things we did well.   We got to our game, but we were throwing the ball all over the building. 
A lot of it was just a lack of fundamentals or concentration.   We can take care of the ball and be more efficient than we were. 

Q.   Based on last night, is the type of series expected to be this way, tight? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   The further you get along, it will be competitive.   There's no way around it.   We feel these are the two best teams in the East.   There won't be a large margin of error either way.   You'll have to prove you can win in different ways. 
We didn't necessarily play our best brand of basketball, but we're still able to find a way to win.   At the end of the day, that's the bottom line. 
Maybe once or twice you have to play a style that's not necessarily your style.   But hopefully the other wins you play to your identity. 

Q.   Did last night again sort of prove that sometimes the threat of Chris Bosh is almost as dominant to deal with as the reality? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Our game, as long as we're getting the spacing and the pace, that opens up the floor for our team.   It's not just Chris, but it's our shooters.   Even the guys that don't necessarily have three‑point range, getting to your spots, that opens up the paint for the rest. 
We've proven we don't necessarily need to make threes to be able to get our paint attacks.   But the spacing and the pace we do things is critical. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT