NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 22, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     (Indiscernible) ‑‑ do you feel like ‑‑ you feel like you can still go with the structure you have had all the way through the playoffs so far?   
  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We're going to try to get to our game.   That's the most important thing, to being consistent to our identity.   
You get this far in the playoffs, it doesn't matter the round.   Whatever it takes.   And that will be our attitude.   
   
 Q.   Erik, is there any sense when you've won 45 of 48 games, if it ain't broke, don't change it?   Or like you said, does each round have its own personality that even with the success you've had, tweaks might be natural because of the match‑ups?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: We're going into this series with our game.   We're going to try to impose our identity, much like they're going to try to impose theirs.   You never know what will unveil as the series goes on.   We will not hesitate, if needed, and we might not need to.   Who knows.   
   
 Q.   Does last year's series have any relevance or bearing on this one?   And who do you think has changed more since that time, the Pacers or you guys?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's tough to say.   It's more for you guys to judge on that.   Last year is last year.   We can throw that out, much like they can.   
The two teams are significantly different, and both teams have improved.   We think we improved greatly from last year.   We think we improved since All‑Star break.   Their basketball team has done the same.   Ultimately these are the two best teams in the East, and that's the way it should be.   
   
 Q.   Erik, in game‑planning, how much emphasis have you put on trying to get Roy Hibbert out of the paint defensively?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Our emphasis is to get to our game.   And that is a game of great pace, of great speed, of great spacing.   He is a factor.   We have to be aware of him.   But when we're at our game, when we're playing at our best at our game, that's the most important thing.   
But we do have to make sure our bodies are moving, the ball is moving, our speed is moving, and we have him in different situations, so he can't just stand and really impact.   But he's much improved.   
   
 Q.   Erik, last week you said you were going to reevaluate everything you guys did coming off that last layoff.   Did you see anything different in your team this week than you did in Game 1 going against Chicago?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's always tough to say.   Reading body language, reading their enthusiasm, our guys are focused.   We had a very good week of practice.   We had two legitimate training camp‑like practices.   Full contact.   We didn't necessarily have those two.   We had one in the series before.   But it remains to be seen whether that makes a difference or not.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT