NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I'm proud to be part of this organization, to represent a culture that Pat created in 1995.   It's come a long way.   I don't take it for granted. 

Q.   Three All‑Star starters, how do you keep those guys in line?
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Good question.   At times my job is to land the plane.   There's a lot of bumps along the way, and ultimately you have to coach the team, guide the team, to lead the team.   And ultimately to land the plane. 

Q.   Which you did?
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   One time.   Hopefully I'll have an opportunity to try to do it again.   If you ask me if it's harder this time or last year, last year when we finished we said it was the hardest thing we've ever collectively done in our entire professional career. 

Q.   What needs for you to happen to repeat?
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, we obviously have to stay healthy.   Peak at the right time.   Be able to provide.   That's what it's about in the playoffs, you have to have players playing at their best.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, when you come as an assistant coach, you're not doing any of this.   You get to probably enjoy it a little bit more.   I was doing more of the daytime activities.   But this is an honor.   It's an honor for our organization.   Many from our organization are here.   We get to share this as well.   It's a special time. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   If I remember some things from '05 when Stan was the coach, it was fun because the players came in wanting to compete and you had to check part of your ego at the door to make it work.   And these guys are experienced with that.   They want to make this a good experience for everybody.   And the more you work together, the better chance that will happen. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They're absolutely a contender.   The last two years it was such a shame that Derrick got injured last year.   You never want to see anybody go down like that. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, I talked to him a little bit today.   We'll have an opportunity to spend more time together tomorrow.   Health is the most important thing for guys this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT