NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 19, 2012
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. From 1 to 10, how is the level of confidence for yourself and the Miami Heat tonight?   And if you could share with us some of your comments to the guys to get them pumped up for tonight's game.   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I don't think it's an issue of confidence right now for either team.   Both teams are confident.   It's about a lot of other things, who's going to make the most plays in a very competitive series.   It doesn't matter the team that's up or the team that's behind, and particularly for us, we've been through a lot.   It's not‑‑ confidence isn't the deal.   
We've talked about several things, but the most consistent thing we talked about is making sure that we leave it out there, and specifically playing to our identity.   You know, we don't want to take that for granted here at home.   
   
 Q.   From watching film, what do you hope gets corrected right away early in this game?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I'd like us to come out with that same aggressive mentality.   We didn't necessarily do things smoothly, but the mentality is what we need.   Defensively we want to continue to be aggressive.   If you're objective about it, they missed some open shots, but that's a very good team.   They have shot‑makers.   You just have to keep on making plays against them and do it collectively.   And hopefully we'll knock down some shots tonight.   The way we look at it, you have a game like that, hopefully you're due the next game.   
   
 Q.   The other night in the span of a couple minutes there were three guys fouled shooting three‑pointers.   When you see that, is that something you never want to see again?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I think there's a great emphasis, right now you get to this level, you don't want to give them anything.   Both sides are, you can tell the sense of urgency, and so you see an open three‑point shooter, you don't want to give him that look.   It's that extra effort to get there.   You don't want to foul a jump shooter.   The one we fouled with Fisher, that was a tough one.   Hand was pretty much straight up in the air, but I could see where it looks like a foul.   
   
 Q.   There seem to be crazy things going on.   You had a player Chris Bosh who had to go home for the birth of his child in the middle of a season.   What do you tell guys to help them deal with distractions off the court and personally that helps them focus when they get on the court?   Because you've had to deal with a lot of the noise professionally, but what about the personal stuff and making sure they are focused.   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, the reality is this is our family away from our families.   We spend arguably more time around each other than we do with our friends and family and loved ones.   And so things go on on the outside, they always know that this is a place that they can come to that's safe, that's a safe haven for all of our players.   We've built up a nice community here.   
   
 Q.   Just on a personal note, the whole vibe of the Finals, South Florida and the fans here?  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Love it.   Our players love it.   You know, it's electric in here.   We don't want to take it for granted, but it's a great thing when your community gets behind you, especially these big moments.   
   
 Q.   What's your biggest concern tonight going into the game?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   You know, probably the same as them.   We want to make sure that we throw our best stuff and make sure that whatever happens that we're being consistent to our identity, and we're being aggressive and throwing our best punches.   We don't want to hold anything back.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on Pat getting an award tonight, Lifetime Achievement Award essentially for his role in coaching?  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Oh, yeah, that's a terrific honor.   We know him so much differently than all of you, but his impact on coaching, the winning and the championships, that speaks for itself, but what he's done here with this franchise and this community, to build us into a year‑in, year‑out team that matters and a contending team, and he's done it in a different role, you know, I think that's pretty amazing.   He's a pretty special guy in my book.   I'll always be grateful for the opportunities he's given me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT