NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 14, 2012
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH SPOELSTRA:   Well, that's competition, you know, and that's what it's about.   That's what we talked about in there.   This is going to be probably like this every single game, and that's the beauty of competition at this level and embracing that competition and seeing what it brings out of you collectively.   We were able to play a little bit more to our disposition and to our identity more consistently tonight, and that was probably the biggest factor.   And both teams know what each other's strengths are, so whoever is able to dictate that more consistently probably has the better chance. 

Q.   If you could talk a little bit about Chris Bosh and his night tonight, the double‑double. 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Sensational.   We needed every bit of his big tonight, and that's what he brought.   What I really liked was yesterday, we had a long film session.   It was a tough almost nauseating film session, and then we did the media, and then we went out to practice.   And I brought the first group out, and I said, okay, get the red team out here and let's walk through a couple things.   And Chris walked right out and put his head under the rim, and so that told me what we were doing today in terms of starting him, and he gave us a lot in the paint, and we need that again and again and again. 

Q.   Two‑part question.   Do you feel lucky to get out of here with a win considering you only outscored the Thunder in one quarter?   And secondly, how did you let the Thunder get back into the game?
COACH SPOELSTRA:   It's a good team.   No, we don't feel lucky.   I think this postseason and everything we've been through has shown that this group has a resourcefulness, a resolve, a resiliency.   We're all a very stubborn group, including this guy.   But that's what the Playoffs are about.   It just brings out competition, and sometimes you just have to find a way.   It's not always going to go the exact way you want to, and you have to keep on grinding and finding a way to get there at the end, and you have to earn it, regardless.   A four‑point win and getting off to a lead and giving it up, well, that's the Playoffs. 

Q.   Could you talk about LeBron, his performance, and did you decide that he was going to cover Durant, or did he come to you and say I want Durant? 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, it was mutual.   It was in my mind, and then as soon as I brought it up, he was absolutely on the same page.   You know, he was doing it at both ends like he has been all season long as a two‑way player, and that's a heck of a match‑up right there. 

Q.   Can you just talk about what was the difference between your team in the fourth quarter today compared to Game 1?   What were they able to do that was successful that they weren't able to do Tuesday night? 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Well, we thought, regardless of how that game went down in Game 1, and we didn't think we played well, still came down to four or five plays, and that's something you have to continue to keep in mind is it doesn't matter how you get there.   It's four or five plays; you've got to make those plays.   So we were able to make a couple defensive plays, not as many as we would have liked going down the stretch, and then we had a couple timely baskets and free throws going down the stretch.   Dwyane had a good play to dish to Chris and LeBron was able to get to the free‑throw line, as well. 

Q.   Given that it probably will be like this every night, what are the main things you want from your team going forward? 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   We want to play to the identity of who we are.   We did not do that in the first game, and a lot of that is because of the opponent.   But our strengths obviously on both ends of the court are to be an aggressive, attacking team. 

Q.   Is there anything that as you go‑‑ you have a two‑day break now.   Is there anything as you go forward here that you want to focus on?   You gave us a list after the last game. 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Well, that will be key.   You see all the big muscle power area right here.   We got dominated in all of those in the first game.   Not a coincidence, okay.   Tonight flip‑flopped those numbers for the most part.   We understand that it's more about how we're trying to impose our identity against a very good team. 

Q.   Shane Battier, was this the guy that you envisioned when you and Pat Riley signed him in the off season?   He's been on fire the past few games. 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, and that's when everybody notices Shane Battier is when the ball is going in.   We notice everything else before that, his versatility.   He allows us to play our roster the way we need to, and we weren't necessarily able to do that last year.   And so now we're able to play LeBron at several different positions, and same with Dwyane, and he kind of ties that all together. 
But yes, it's the defensive plays that he makes, it's the leadership, all the details mean everything to him, and that's become contagious to this group.   And he's proven himself over his career that in clutch moments he's a timely shooter. 

Q.   Another slow start for Kevin Durant and a fast finish.   Just talk about what you guys were doing to him?
COACH SPOELSTRA:   He's a great player.   He's going to keep on coming, and that's what you have to try to do is just have a body in front of him and wear on him sometimes to make or miss in this league.   We understand that, as well, but you've got to make him work for it.   But he's a versatile and talented scorer, no doubt. 

Q.   It certainly appeared Dwyane was more aggressive early and even late the ball seemed to be going through him, he was initiating that offense.   Is that something you talked to him about?
COACH SPOELSTRA:   We did, but it wasn't needed.   We knew that we had to be aggressive, and he's one of our attackers.   So we were trying to play to our identity.   He set the tone at the beginning.   You could see with his aggressiveness off the bounce.   And we'll need it. 

Q.   In the last few minutes of the game, you got some good offensive execution and you had some shaky defensive execution. 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Yeah.

Q.   How did you see that?   It's usually the opposite for your team. 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Actually we've gotten better much better, in those late game clutch situations.   We've been in so many of them now in the Playoffs.   It seems like every one of our games has gone down to the wire this whole entire run.   But defensively you also have to give them credit.   They have shot makers and play makers, guys that can put a lot of heat on you and they come at you with a lot of different things.   They made some tough shots, made a couple breakdowns we could do better, and again, it still comes down to the competition and finding a way, and sometimes it's a different way each game.

Q.   Could you describe the two big scorers, LeBron made the turnaround and then the high screen roll that got the Bosh play up?
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, that's something we've been doing throughout the Playoffs.   We didn't have the component of Chris Bosh before, okay, so that's probably why it looked a little bit different.   And then LeBron, it was a broken play.   At the end of the possession, and he did what great players do, they create something out of nothing, and he was able to get it over the top and bank it in.   It was a heck of a shot. 

Q.   To clarify, were you still on the fence with starting Bosh after that long film session and then you saw what Bosh wanted to do?
COACH SPOELSTRA:   Not sure.   I mean, I knew we needed more of Chris Bosh.   I think that he had already had enough games.   I think I was leaning that way, and that cemented my decision.   I loved it, and we didn't even have to talk about it.   Everybody understood.   It wasn't anything that I had to announce. 

Q.   Talk about the focus of LeBron.   He was very focused.   Tonight he was 12 for 12 free throw shooting.   Talk about that. 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   He's been doing it in so many different ways in this playoff run.   Sometimes it's been the rebounds, sometimes he's had close to 20 rebounds, defensive plays, attacking the basket, big threes, and he's at that point right now whatever it takes. 

Q.   Talk about the confidence going forward with this momentous win. 
COACH SPOELSTRA:   We were a confident team even before that, and that's why I think it's important to always compartmentalize and not get too carried away with the result.   You have to play to your identity and find a way.   We didn't think we played well in Game 1, and we still had an opportunity to win.   This is going to be a very competitive series.   We're confident going home, but that doesn't guarantee anything, and I think our guys have enough perspective to know that we're going to have to earn this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT