NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 5, 2012
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Okay.   Chris is a game‑time decision.   He is going to go through his full warmup right now.   We'll make an evaluation before the game.   If he does play, he will not start.   He'll come in at some point in the rotation in a short burst, and that's all it would be.   
If we determine he's not ready to go tonight, that's not a setback.   It just means another day of work and possibly he will be ready for the next game.   And we will continue to reevaluate from there.   
   
 Q.   Erik, what was the original timetable on Chris coming back (Indiscernible)?  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   These are tough injuries.   You don't necessarily know.   Everybody's body is different with these.   It could be up from three weeks to eight weeks, 12 weeks.   Each person is different, and each injury can be slightly different.   
He responded very well after the first week of his treatment.   
   
 Q.   The thought on playing the short burst, is that just to get him acclimated again, if you decide if he does play, or is it condition‑related?   How did that decision come about?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   A little bit of everything.   If he's able to go tonight or if it's the next game, it will be a small role.   And that's all he has to be for us right now.   He doesn't have to be the Chris Bosh that he was seven weeks ago.   We can build up to that.   He just has to give us solid minutes and help our rotation get worked out.   
   
 Q.   Do you think he'll play at the four or the five, with another big out there or without, if he plays tonight?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Most likely he'll be playing at the five.   But wherever needed.   
   
 Q.   What is the main thing you need to see or hear from the trainers to decide?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   A lot of it will be Chris, whether he feels like he's ready to go, and the progress that he's made that will show that he's ready to go right now.   And obviously myself and Jay will have a big voice in it in the end.   
   
 Q.   There was a report today that a masseuse had died at Chris Bosh's house.   I don't know how much you know about it, but is that something that potentially could distract him tonight or what do you know about this situation?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's an absolute tragedy.   It really is.   We're learning all the full details right now.   So it would probably be inappropriate for me to comment any further about it.   But Chris was around this morning.   He was focused.   He was ready, if he can go.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT