NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 1, 2012
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat   91
  Boston Celtics101 
  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Okay.   They played well.   They got us tonight.   We got off to a pretty good start.   The reserves came into the game and really knocked us back on our heels.   And from that point on we were playing catch‑up, it seemed like, the whole night.   We couldn't get over the hump.   Probably not as aggressive as we were the other night on both ends of the court.   
They were able to get into a great rhythm.   A lot of easy baskets in the paint for them.   56 points in the paint.   It's probably, if not a season high, right up there close to it for them.   
   
 Q.   Erik, how much did their willingness to go relentlessly to Kevin Garnett in the second quarter down low sort of set the tone for them inside?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, he played great.   They established him deep in the paint.   We can do some things better in terms of getting him a step further out and trying to disrupt him a little bit on his catches, but he was able to get in a real good comfort zone.   So he played well, and we understand that we'll have to play well to play in this building.   
All of our energy, all of our focus right now will be on Sunday.   We still have a golden opportunity.   And we know that once we settle in and gather ourselves and get ready for tomorrow for Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Your field‑goal percentage and three‑point percentage were about identical tonight, so what do you see as being really the big difference?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They got us out of our offense there pretty much in the second quarter, the step‑out, the pressure, flattened us out.   We had about four or five empty possessions where we didn't even get into what we wanted to.   
We'll be better against that pressure on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the impact guys like Marquis Daniels and Keyon Dooling had tonight.   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They sparked the game with their energy and defensive effort.   Our guys do the same thing as well.   It's a credit for them to staying ready.   That's probably when the game turned, like I said, when the reserves came in.   Took back the lead.   We were up at that point 28‑22, I think.   And then from that point on we were playing catch‑up the rest of the night.   
   
 Q.   You went with a lineup and a strategy that maybe I don't know if you had it in your back pocket in the fourth quarter.   What was the reason for doing that?   Is that something you think you might have found that you might go back to?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Down 20, okay?   I had to go to something to change the dynamic of the game, try to speed it up.   I knew against this defense we probably wouldn't be able to overcome a 20‑point deficit unless we put some points on the board and played a little bit faster.   That's our fastest group.   We were able to claw back into it.   I think we got it to eight with a possession going to the rim.   That probably would have made it a little more interesting, if we could have gotten that one possession to six.   
   
 Q.   Do you think that's something that is sustainable, that you can go back to?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I don't know, maybe in short bursts.   Thought about it for a while, in short bursts.   Usually my thought comes in extreme situations like this, but that could be something we could go to.   We all know when Chris went out that everything is on the table, and everybody is on board with that.   
   
 Q.   Erik, 35 combined free‑throw attempts for Dwyane and LeBron in the last game, I think five tonight.   What do you see as the main reason for that?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We'll be more aggressive and we'll find ways to get to the rim and to the free‑throw line next game.   We're not getting into anything else.   
   
 Q.   Erik, Rondo obviously was never going to have numbers like he had the other night.   Would you assess his impact in the second half in this game?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   He broke us off the dribble, he made a lot of plays.   Like they usually come, they're in random situations.   Not play calls, not something you can necessarily scheme for.   It's unpredictability of him penetrating and finding guys.   He did a very good job of that.   
   
 Q.   Were they doing anything in particular against Dwyane?   LeBron had his normal‑‑ were they doing anything differently?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They were being very aggressive trying to get the ball out of his hands, and the ball was moving at times.   We still need to find ways to get it back to him at the second or third ball movement.   
They got us tonight.   Our energies now will be focused on Sunday, and what we can do to do better in that game.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned Sunday.   This series was pretty much the same situation last year, going up 2‑0.   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I don't think there's any relevance.   No.   We feel we can win on the road.   We know this is a tough place to play, but we know we can play a lot better than this.   And that's what we'll be focused on the next 48 hours.   
   
 Q.   Hi, Coach.   Is there something wrong with Dwyane?   He just doesn't seem like himself.   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, there's nothing wrong.   At this point this deep into the playoffs you can ask that question to any player that's logging significant minutes.   They probably don't feel 100%.   But he's able to still impact the game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT