NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
May 28, 2012
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Everybody is ready to go, except for Chris, and no surprises with the starting lineup.   
   
 Q.   Erik, was Chris able to do any more today?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   A little bit more, but nothing on the court, at least so far.   Hey, look, we're all very pleased with the progress he's been making, considering when you saw him and the look on the court and when he was walking off, obviously you think the worst at the time.   So seeing him like he is right now is significant progress.   But it's still, you know, indefinite for his return.   
   
 Q.   Erik, you say no changes, same starting lineup as in the Indiana series.   Can you talk about Shane Battier sort of in a bastardized role there against a bigger power forward.   In this series do you feel it's going to be the same kind of challenges, or do you feel more comfortable with Brandon Bass being more of an outside shooter?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Bass is not only an outside shooter, he's also an inside presence.   I think what we're doing is using our versatility, and we're calling both Shane and LeBron forwards.   Neither one is a small forward or a power forward; they'll both be guarding multiple positions.   Shane gives us that flexibility to be able to play both those guys in the same lineup.   
   
 Q.   You have spoken about the last three games closing out the Indiana series, as far as what Wade and LeBron were doing.   Do you worry that there's only so much more that they can give, or is it just a matter of challenging them to the next level?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   There's no alternative.   And that's the reality of our team.   Now, they don't have to score 70 for us to have a chance to win, but they have to shoulder a big load.   I mentioned that the other day, that that's the new norm for us.   
They have to make a lot of plays for us on both ends of the court, and they're up to the challenge.   And this will be another great challenge in this series.   But they have, hopefully, what it takes.   
   
 Q.   Erik, what do you want to see from Ronny on Garnett, if that's the way you start?   What are you expecting from him?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   The same thing we normally do:   A lot of energy, activity, some defensive presence at the rim.   He's also able to give us that element at the rim on pick‑and‑rolls, get to the rim.   
In terms of a one‑on‑one matchup, it is so hard with this team.   You can't look at the one‑on‑one matchups.   I know they are very popular from outside, but they run so many actions and so many triggers that requires a team defensive‑‑ if you're not guarding your guy, you'll be helping out on somebody else virtually every single possession, even with a Ray Allen catch‑and‑shoot situation, or anything that's involving Rondo.   
So we're not looking at Ronny to be a Garnett‑stopper.   He's to play his role, and that's to bring us defensive energy and activity.   
   
 Q.   What challenges do you have with Rondo as opposed to what you had in the Indiana series, with Rondo running things?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Rondo is a basketball maestro.   He really is.   He's one of the most unique players I've seen in this league in all my years in the league.   What is part of his greatness is his utter unpredictability.   And you don't know where he's going to come up with that great play.   The one thing you do know is that he has great timing with his play.   He knows the moment.   He knows what his team needs the most in that moment.   And it could be anything.   Oftentimes you don't see the same thing game to game.   
So we understand how he is the motor for that team.   How he can make so many plays.   And we have to step up to the challenge, with a lot of people guarding him, but a whole heck of a lot of energy and a lot of activity as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT