NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 2, 2011
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: Everybody is ready to go. 

 Q. Coach, how did the practice go today? And what are your expectations of the game tonight coming out with the intensity that you had in Game 1? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: Practice was fine today. We expect a response from Dallas, certainly in terms of their effort, their disposition. We have to exceed all of that and make sure that we're trying to challenge all their shots. 
 They challenge your defense with their ability to shoot the ball, especially with range and multiple guys that have skill sets to put the ball on the floor and do multiple things. So we have to be on top of our game. 
 We haven't done anything yet, except for win our first home game. 

 Q. The emphasis from Coach Carlisle was to rebound more. That's what they were going to put more of an effort on. What are your thoughts on that? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: That's a key for both teams. Both teams try to defend and rebound the basketball, finish off their defense. That's something that's been a priority for us all season long. 

 Q. What factors were involved in Juwan Howard being in the rotation in Game 1? In general, whether he's been in the rotation or not in the season, what kind of role or contribution has he made to the success of your team? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: He's been invaluable to this group in particular, because of his veteran experience, his leadership. The guys respect him. And they did from the very first day of training camp. And it even went to another level. Everybody knew he was a Fab Five guy. A lot of our players were big fans of that team. And when the special came out, that kind of highlighted him even more in their eyes. 
 But he plays an important role for us, and it's an unorthodox role. Because he's been in and out of the rotation, and he can play short minutes, short bursts and be productive without being out of rhythm. And he finds a way to contribute. We have had confidence in him all year long. It depends on who we're playing. And how we feel the matchups are. But he's a very good team defender, and he's certainly a great leadership voice for the rest of the team. 

 Q. Erik, now that everyone is sort of used to the Finals stage a little more than the other night, even though you're obviously a defensive-oriented team, do you expect there to be more of an offensive flow? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: Probably. I think both teams think they could have played better offensively. I looked at it probably too much ad nauseam. After further review, I think we did execute fairly well and were getting open looks. We didn't knock them down and I'm sure they think the same thing. 
 That's not going do change our mindset in terms of our priorities. We have to defend, we have to play with effort. It is going to be a tough physical game, and we wouldn't expect anything less than that. 

 Q. Coach, Chris Bosh is already getting inundated with questions about going back to Dallas. Yesterday he was very quick to say, I'm going to detach myself from all the friends and family and not even think about it. Just talk about the focus that Chris Bosh has right now, and how he's able to do that. 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: He's had that all year long. He's a very intelligent, mature player and person. He's able to compartmentalize things in his life and in his profession. He keeps an even keel, but don't mistake that for a lack of competitiveness. He has a burning fire inside of him. It took me a little bit by surprise. We did a lot of research about him, but he's one of the more competitive players I've ever been around. And once you get to coach him, you realize that pretty quickly. 

 Q. Coach, will you use Game 2 in Chicago as an example of what could happen if they're not prepared as an incentive for tonight? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: Not only that, but our guys have been very mature about this playoff run the whole way through. We know what to expect from them. They are going to hit back. And we wouldn't expect anything less than that. They missed some open shots, but we also were able to disrupt some of it. 
 We have got to bring our best defensive game, knowing that that's a very poised, veteran ballclub. They've been able to bounce back in their losses in the playoffs very well. 
 So it looks to be a very competitive and physical basketball game going in. And I imagine it won't let us down from that regard. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT