NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 1, 2011
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: So we're back at it today. I think both teams probably after reviewing the film probably feel like they each can play better than we did last night. I know they probably feel the same way. 
 We have great respect for what they are and what they're capable of offensively. They did miss some open shots. We affected some at times, but they're a dangerous offensive team with the skill level and the shooting ability and the passing ability that they have. So we have to be on edge. 

 Q. Erik, I saw Mike Miller out there working sort of one-handed. How is he today with his shoulder? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: Actually, it's fine. He'll be able to play tomorrow. There won't be anything stopping him from playing. 
 In terms of the one-handed, he can probably put his guide hand up there if he needed to right now. But we're just trying to rest it. 

 Q. Erik, when you brought these guys in here, the feeling was you would have your three-point shooters spacing the floor. Instead we're seeing more and more of LeBron wide open, actually being able to sort of gather himself. Dwyane the same thing. Was that sort of in the thinking that even the star guys would also get shots? LeBron almost took like a comfort dribble on a couple of those before he put them up last night. 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: That's how teams have been playing us. There's no secret. Every team we've played now for the last three or four months, same game plan. Try to keep us out of the paint. Keep us away from the rim. Keep us off the free-throw line. And we try to be aggressive and get to our game and do those things. At the same time you have to keep defenses honest. Sometimes that's the right play, especially when it comes within the context and the rhythm of the offense. A couple of the threes obviously were home run plays, but when those two guys are in rhythm and they have some good actions going on and they feel involved and in a good flow in the game, they've proven that they can make timely threes, especially when they're wide open. 

 Q. Coach, as you've worked your way through this long and winding season, the closing aspect of closing games and being able to come together and work that out, how impressed are you that you have so many different options now to close at key moments down the stretch? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: Each game is different. And sometimes we play different lineups to close games. Sometimes we go with a defensive lineup. We have a lot of versatility. We don't want to take it for granted. I think a lot of our confidence stems from our belief in our defense, that we don't feel an overwhelming pressure offensively, because we feel that we can get stops if needed. 
 And it took time. I think the more time you're in these experiences, and we have been in a lot of close games, particularly in the playoffs, the more confident the guys get. 

 Q. Did you come into last night's game planning to use LeBron defensively against Terry a lot or was that an adjustment? And what do you think LeBron was able to do to take Terry out of the game so well in the second half? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: He missed some shots. A couple of them that he normally makes. He's a dangerous player, because he can make contested threes as well. He's a big key to what they do. So we're trying to treat him with appropriate respect. It has to be with a team concept. 
 LeBron is one of our better, most impact individual defenders. So that was something that happened. And we'll see what happens in the next game as well. 

 Q. You guys have been a really good second-half team. I think you got a handful of comeback victories. Can you put your finger on why that is, why you're able to turn the corner late third, fourth quarter? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: No, I don't. We had a hunch when we were struggling at the beginning of third quarters that we weren't warming up and coming in with the appropriate mindset to start third quarters. We've been trying to get better at that. We think we've made some progress, although the 7-0 start last night wasn't very encouraging. 
 We're gaining more confidence in the fourth quarter. Listen, we had to go through a lot of struggles. Guys that have followed this team, we went through a lot of games in the fourth quarter where we had eight-to-ten-point leads and we ended up losing those games. I think our team understood we need to get better. They embraced the challenge of playing better in close games in the fourth quarter and finding different ways to win. 
 Sometimes we would do it with our defensive effort; sometimes it's timely shots. But probably the more times we've been in that, you gain confidence that you're able to do it, even if it may be a different way each game. 

 Q. Where on your scale did last night's physicality fall? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: All of the games are physical in the playoffs. We've had an incredibly physical road to get to here. And the Finals, I don't think anybody is leaving anything away from the court. 

 Q. So it wasn't less physical than you expected it to be? It didn't seem over the top? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: It was physical. There was high intensity. What we expect from a Finals game. It was a defensive-oriented game for the aficionado out there, I don't know if they enjoyed it. I think so. I think it's great basketball. Two teams really competing. Both teams shot under 40%. You see a team will to win, both sides, finding out how to win when it doesn't come easy. 

 Q. Along the same lines, this team has been down six or seven times at the half. Does the confidence level at the room compare to what you remember from like maybe the '06 team when it was down at times during the title run? 
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: I don't know. I felt uncomfortable then when we did it. We had a record amount of double-digit games. I think with that championship year, it was different. Those guys were inspired by those type of moments. With us, that's just the way the games have played out. It's been very competitive in the first half, and sometimes we've been down. I don't think it's a good habit for us to get into. But I don't think it's from a lack of focus or a lack of effort. I think that's the nature of the competition and who we've been playing. 
 Part of our game is to continue to grind and try to wear on teams and hope that there's a breakthrough at some point in the fourth quarter. 

 Q. Did you bring it up last night? Are you at that stage where you remind them you've been there before or --
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: No doubt about that. There's no doubt we reminded ourselves in each huddle and at halftime that we've been in enough games like that where it's not necessarily a high-scoring game. Guys aren't necessarily in a great rhythm offensively. Although, after reviewing it, I think the ball movement and player movement was probably a little bit better than I thought. But we've been in a lot of these grind-out games and find a way just to stay in there, stay the course, and find a way to win it at the end. 
 Again, I think the more times you're in those type of games, the less you panic or become distracted by that type of uneven flow. 

 Q. Erik, it looked like you went exclusively with Udonis on Dirk down the stretch. Given how far he's come, is it surprising he was able to go as hard as he was?
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: Every day. Nowitzki is such an incredible talent. It really is. He's one of the most consistent players ever in this game. You can book him for his numbers. Regardless of what your schemes are, who your individual defenders are, it takes an incredible team commitment to try to impact his rhythm. 
 But in terms of UD, all of this is such an element of the unknown. It's improbable that he's even contributing this many minutes. My plan was just to have him around at the beginning of the playoffs, just to have him in uniform to hear his voice as our team captain, I thought it would be great in the huddles. 
 It's well documented that six, seven weeks ago the training staff was preparing me that he would not be ready. So anything that he's been able to contribute is an overwhelming bonus. It is a surprise. It speaks to his championship heart. He has something inside of him that most players don't have. And I don't know what to expect. I know we can get his toughness, his intensity. I just can't imagine he would be in great rhythm offensively, but he's effective for us out there just being out there and competing. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA: In terms of the matchup with Nowitzki, it's not a one-on-one matchup. I don't want him to look at it that way. I don't want him to ever feel like he's on an island. He has to occupy him and compete with him the best he can and not get frustrated when Nowitzki makes tough shots, which he will. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT