NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 27, 2020
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Having coached him in four NBA Finals, wanted to get your thoughts on seeing LeBron make it back for a 10th time to the Finals with a third team and what he has done and is doing?
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's pretty amazing.  Just the level of greatness over a sustained -- such a sustained period of time.  Yeah, that's amazing.
Q. Did you watch the end, last night, of their game?  You've been through that moment a few times already, but does seeing another team get the trophy and confetti and all that fun stuff, is it additional inspiration?
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I didn't see it.  So far past my bedtime (chuckling).  I feel like I'd have to drink three cups of coffee on those nights.  Although I've watched way more of the playoff basketball in the bubble.  Typically I hate watching with the commercials and everything.  But it's been really cool to do that.
Q. After Game 5, so much of the talk was about sustaining the energy levels for 48 minutes. Can you gauge at this point having been through this so many times what the energy level is for the team?
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No.  I think any coach that says that they can -- you just never know and that's why you do this.  I know the type of character and the competitors that we have in our locker room.  Our guys love competing.  Love just a high level competition, and that much, you know, I know deep in my heart.
Q. Boston found a way to limit Bam in the last game. How do you feel like Bam's handled this new level of focus from the opponent at this level?
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, he's earned it.  That's what all the great players have to go through, different schemes, different matchups, game plans against you.  They know how important he is, and like I said before, he's an elite competitor, and he's as impactful as anyone in this association.
Q. The team have a big combination of young talent like Tyler Herro and more experienced guys like Jimmy Butler.  How much does it benefit the team dynamic in the Conference Finals right now?
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It definitely helps, and that's why we acquired the veteran players that we did because our young players were going to have big roles on this team and we wanted to make it about now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT