NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 16, 2011
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   ERIK SPOELSTRA: So we're obviously very disappointed about last night's performance. We have to come in the next two days and try to fix some of the things that gave us problems. 
 We all know obviously the effort plays, the second-chance opportunities, all those things really deflated our focus and our concentration and effort there in the second half. With all that said, and with all the evaluations about the game, we are still in a position to take control with a win on Wednesday. And this whole series will be about enduring and how long can you endure through the physical grind, but just as importantly, the mental grind. Because it's two very competitive physical teams. 

 Q. Erik, Udonis Haslem is the kind of guy, it would seem, if healthy, to offer exactly what you would need with hustle and rebounding and movement. Is he in a position to offer that, or is that simply not an option for you at this stage? 
 ERIK SPOELSTRA: It's an option. I'll evaluate everything. The reality is a lot of the rebound, second-chance effort plays were with our main guys on the court. And it's something we can do much better. We're a very good rebounding team. We've proven that all season long. We've got to revert back to our habits. And sometimes it's the little things, finishing off your defense, the next rotation to block out, and just as important, finishing the offensive rebound possessions. They had five big three-pointers after an offensive rebound that we could have gotten to shooters and make an extra effort. We weren't able to do that. 

 Q. Similarly, Mike Miller is also another hustle kind of player. Very good rebounder, but also limited. Is he a guy who has the skill set that can cover, or is he simply not in shape enough to be an impact player? 
 ERIK SPOELSTRA: He's ready. All these things we'll look at. We want to do it better as a group, and everybody that's out there can do a better job of it. 

 Q. Erik, two of your centers, Zydrunas and Dampier, are inactive. They offer a lot of size. Is that something you may need to rethink? 
 ERIK SPOELSTRA: I'll evaluate everything. We could do normally much better than we did last night. 

 Q. When you have conversations about the players (Indiscernible)?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA: Everybody understands. But we're disappointed about last night's game. We still have an opportunity. And sometimes you have to have amnesia going into Game 2. You can't just let it go. The next two-and-a-half days we're going to work to fix some of these challenges that we had last night. But we still have to understand that Wednesday is a golden opportunity for us. And it doesn't matter. 
 Sometimes there's good performances, bad performances in the playoffs. That's really irrelevant. It really just comes down to a win and a loss. We lost the first one. We still are coming up here to try to get one. And we have an opportunity on Wednesday. 

 Q. Do you prefer to play sooner or later or are you glad to have the two days? 
 ERIK SPOELSTRA: Like I said in the previous series, you probably would rather get going. But that's not the schedule we've been dealt. So we have to deal with it. And we can use the days to prep and work on some of these things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT