NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 16, 2020
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. You are 9-1 in the playoffs and this is not like this is a new thing, but after a win, what is the process of still going through and cleaning up all the things I'm sure you want to clean up?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   You just have to continue to keep the task at hand.  Obviously this is a super competitive series.  We were down 12 and it was for a reason.  I mentioned that after the game, they were playing well, getting us out of what we typically do.  It's high-level competition and you can expect a big-time response from them.
 We need to play better.  We need to do some things, certainly, better on both sides of the court.  That's what today was about, just trying to get better.
 Q. The fact that your team can go through the finish of last night.  The fact that Bam can make that play in that moment and then he gets done and goes to media and says, it's one game, we move on.  Does that show you that mentally you're where you need to be?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   As a competitor, his competitive maturity belies his age. That's what we've always loved about Bam.  It's about winning.  That's all he thinks about, is how to impact winning.  All the ways that a staff and an organization would see it.  It's not about the final column on the box score: scoring.  It's whatever's needed.  He had a couple big-time plays, not just that one, but defensively going down the stretch.  Really switching out but also protecting the rim.  All of these things contribute to winning.
 He has that maturity to understand it is only one game.  Seven-game series are hard, and we have great respect for who we are playing against.
 Q. Did you see something in Game 1 they necessarily did to Duncan?  Was it a product of the foul trouble? And how much have you had to change things up for Duncan because he is on the other team's game plan and scouting report now?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, we changed quite a bit.  But if we were trying to cram the test and do that in the last three days, you wouldn't have the necessary habits.  He just has to continue to run his routes with purpose and incredible persistence.  I think he could have been a lot more persistent last night, but he typically finds ways to have a better impact as a series goes on.
 Q. And how did you feel his defensive play was against their very good and high-scoring wings yesterday?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I thought it was fine.  His third foul, he reached.  He said he had his hands up.  But he reached.  That was a foul.  Just hit a three; I wanted to see three or four at that point [snapping fingers].  He's got to do things with detail and not bail out.  I'm sure Quinny [Chris Quinn] is driving him probably a hundred times making him do it with his hands up with technique right now as we speak.
 Q. You have such an eclectic group and you seem to enjoy each other.  How much are you enjoying the process with this specific team?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, I want to make sure that we all stay as present as possible.  This is such an extraordinary time and opportunity.  We do have a lot of different personalities with this group, but we share the same values about competition.  Guys are very serious about their approach to competition and competing.  But then you get outside the four lines and it is a fun group to be around.
 Q. This group has shown that the elements are there with all your guys.  What is it, though, specifically, that we can understand about that mindset and ability that helps you deal with momentum swings both good and bad in these games?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We have a lot of veteran guys that have been in playoff series before.  You start with that.  You need guys that have been playoff-tested and have that experience.
 Jimmy, Goran, Jae, Andre, they have been through so many tough playoff series before and felt disappointment, felt elation.  They know how hard it is in the playoffs.  You have that kind of stability and leadership that trickles down to our young players that allows them to be themselves and allows them to play without knowing what they don't know.
 Q. Every series is different, every game is different but the fourth quarter numbers in the playoffs have been off the charts in a positive way for you guys.  Have you sensed a common these between these games?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Not necessarily.  Some of the games have been close.  Some of the games we've been up and the other team came back.
 I would like to see us be able to compete heading into the fourth where we're not in a double-digit deficit, for sure.
 Q. Your offense is so unique to most of the offenses around the league and it's a real adjustment for defenses when they first face you, so as they get more used to how they have to defend you, how does your team have to adjust or improve the way you approach it?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We'll just have to see.  We know that we're facing a really good defense.  By a lot of different metrics that you can point to, they are the best defensive team in the league.  You have to do things with great detail and purpose.  I say it time and time again:  You have to do things with force and speed and pace.  If you don't, and you just are mindlessly running around out there without spacing, without those level of details, they will flatten you out and they will do it and make you feel some pain, getting into some tough shots.
 We understand their defense is really good. We'll see what layers that we'll have to get into as we can for sure anticipate.
 Q. What is the element that you would like to emphasize about Game 2?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, they were kicking our ass.  I mean, that's a pretty good place to start.  We were getting our asses kicked going into the fourth quarter.  That didn't feel too good.
 Q. What do you think made the difference for you guys and which is the thing you are most proud of the way you played?
 ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, even though they were kicking our ass, we were able to mentally stay with it and just stay the course.  We did play some better basketball with more force and detail in the fourth quarter, and at that point, it can become make or miss or foul or not foul or whatever, and fortunately we were able to make enough plays down the stretch.  Bam got an incredible block and Jimmy made some really willful plays.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT