NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 12, 2014
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Miami's bench is averaging 18.3 points per game, San Antonio's averaging 33.3 points a game.   Is that one of the main concerns tonight for this type of game? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Our main concern is putting our best game forward, and we've had it in stretches.   It's great competition.   That's the challenge tonight to do it on both sides of the floor, and that's what we've talked about for the last two days.

Q.   How different is your approach to defending Parker versus defending Ginobili?   Is there a stark contrast between how you defend? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They're different, yeah, there is no question about it.   But they're both elite, great players.   You do have to give them different looks.   If it's the same look, they get comfortable, then they can carve you up.

Q.   I mean, what is the difference in the two of them from your perspective? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, they're different.   They're different.   They are.   You see the difference in their ability, how they attack, what they're looking for, how they're trying to facilitate, those type of things.

Q.   For all the stuff you guys chart, track, that would appear on the boxscore or not, where are you on plus‑minus?   Do you look at that at all?   Does it have much value to you? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Look at it?   Ours don't look that great right now.   Theirs look great.   You look down their line and everybody's a major plus.   We have to change that.

Q.   A wider window in the last two days is what I was going after.   Is it a stat you put a lot of value in? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, it's one of them.   But, again, there is a myriad of things we look at.   It's different each day, each game.   I have a report, but it was pretty obvious the things we needed to do better.   We don't need all the analytics that I get, 25 pages worth, to see we had 28 turnovers, 23 points, flattened us out offensively, and then defensively them shooting a record‑high field‑goal percentage.   That has to change.   I don't have to look any further than that.

Q.   Did the work that you guys do with Dwyane Wade in between games change at all when you got to the postseason? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   In terms of his program?   No.

Q.   Well, he's not going to miss any games in the postseason, obviously. 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, his program is the same.   If anything, he's picked it up the last six weeks of the season and into the postseason.   There is a little bit more time to train, to recover, all of those things.

Q.   Have you guys had any issues during the playoffs with him?   And is there any concern right now where you're playing three games every other day? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, we're not playing every night, so that was always the biggest issue. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT