NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 12, 2014
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio Spurs - 107
  Miami Heat - 86 
   
 Q.   Before the game you said simply the Heat's goal was to put its best game forward.   What happened in the first half?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, they just‑‑ they played great.   And I can honestly say I don't think any of us were expecting this type of performance.   Our approach coming into the game, and everything, they were great.   You do have to give them credit for that.   
We just couldn't get into a rhythm on either side of the ball, and then it just went from there.  
   
 Q.   What was the issue with LeBron leaving just before tip and then again mid‑way through the first quarter?   And as a second part, you guys didn't have anybody else in doubles until like midway through the fourth.   For as good as LeBron's line will look on paper, how disappointing was it‑‑  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, it was on both ends of the court.   I mean, obviously, in the first quarter we were struggling to get to our normal defensive rotations.   They had some easy baskets.   They moved the ball great.   Offensively when we did move the ball on a few possessions, we had missed opportunities.   And then from there we just could not get into a rhythm offensively.   I actually liked some of the possessions offensively with the ball movement and getting guys involved.   We just couldn't get it to go down or couldn't get the look that we needed, and you do have to credit them for that.  
   
 Q.   And LeBron?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   LeBron first time went to the bathroom, second time get his ankle retaped.  
   
 Q.   What is it about the Spurs brutal offense that you guys haven't been able to control on back‑to‑back games?   Is fatigue beginning to be a factor in the series?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, it's not fatigue.   Both teams are playing the same minutes, same time of year.   We just have to figure it out.   We have 48 hours.   I've got to do a better job for my team.   San Antonio is playing great.   They're moving the basketball.   They're exploiting where we're normally good, so we have to do a better job.   Even when we've made adjustments, they've still been able to stay in a rhythm and a flow from there.  
   
 Q.   It was another cold start for you guys tonight.   How are you going to control that in Game 5?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, we'll work on that in the next 48 hours.  
   
 Q.   I know you're a system team.   You do what you do.   You usually say you just try to do it better.   However, after these last two games, might there have to be more dramatic adjustments, whether it's lineup, whether it's systematic approach, especially your defensive approach against them?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, possibly.   Like I said, I've got to do a better job.   We've got a couple days to figure it out, but we'll lay everything out, look under the hood, and see what we need to do.   
We have made some adjustments, and like I said, they've been able to get into their game, their rhythm and flow regardless of what scheme we've been able to put out there, and you do have to credit them for that.   
At the end of the day, what I told our team though, when we're right, we can beat anybody anywhere.   Our guys feel they can win at any time against anybody in any building, and that's the only focus for the next 48 hours.   We can let the clutter out tonight, frustration and the surprise of this game.   This was probably the biggest surprise of the series.   I think everybody came in expecting something dramatically different than this, and that's what competition does.   It's an unknowable event.   
But our mindset will be to get it right to where we know we can win anywhere three days from now.  
   
 Q.   And you changed your lineup in the start of the second half with Ray.   Is that something you'll consider going forward?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We'll look at everything right now.   But I'm going to take a step back, (takes a breath) exhale, I've got to find a way to do a better job for my group.  
   
 Q.   You guys have trailed in the series before but have never been down two games.   How much different does this one feel?   And how much is it about trying to restore confidence and trust in one another at this point?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, I think everybody just needs to get away from for a little bit.   Like I said, probably this was the biggest surprise of the series, this game.   Everything else is competition.   You don't know what's going to happen.   Sometimes you're going to get the better of the other team, sometimes it's vice versa, sometimes it's close games, sometimes it gets out of hand like the other night.   But you always have a chance to come back and make amends for it.   We didn't.   So now we're put into a different situation.   
Our group has been through everything you possibly can be through except for this circumstance, so why not?   Why not test ourselves right now collectively?   Our championship resolve that we've proven time and time again.   We'll have to do it in a different way.   
And I want our focus right now not about all the three games.   All it is, is let's get this thing back to Miami.   When we're right mentally, emotionally, collectively there is a real strong spirit to us, we feel we can win anywhere, and that's what we'll work on for the next two days.  
   
 Q.   Dwyane I think left his first five shots short and they were all in the paint.   Was there something different about him tonight?   Didn't seem like he had quite the lift that we've seen.   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, you have to credit their defense as well.   It looked like he had a couple of opportunities.   A couple he just missed, and that happens through competition, and Leonard got a piece of another one.   Made a heck of a play on that.   He was able to at least get into the paint a few times.   But once they got up by 15, then we started to lose a little bit more rhythm from there, and that was everybody, not just exclusive to Dwyane.  
   
 Q.   Coach, it seems at times the offense needs some creativity.   Have you considered Michael Beasley and his input and why he was inactive today?   Have you considered his addition to the team?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, we need quite a few things right now, so I have a couple days to mull over all the possibilities.   So I'll have probably a lot of waking hours thinking about it with my staff.  
   
 Q.   It's just that's kind of what he was brought in for and people are wanting to see some of his offensive creativity.   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, we'll see.   We'll see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT