NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 28, 2014
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Ray did his normal shooting pregame routine.   I don't know for sure until he gets his treatment.   Bird is getting treatment.   So I don't know about him.   I'll turn in my card when I find out.

Q.   With Chris Andersen, what are the tangible things, I guess, you're looking at to determine whether or not he plays tonight? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, it's mobility.   He doesn't have much of it right now.   It is getting a little bit better, but he doesn't have a whole lot of mobility. 
His was a little bit different than Ray's.   Ray's is a little bit more in the hip region.   His is right square in the thigh.

Q.   It's a positive sign that Ray Allen worked out, obviously? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   But that's Ray.   Ray is going to do that one way or another no matter what.   Nothing is going to stop him from that routine.   He did that routine last year when he had a sprained ankle, and I sat him out of the Charlotte game, one of the late regular season games, and he still came over here and did at least free throws.

Q.   Do you have to be creative with the lineup tonight? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Multiple cards.   That's the world we live in.

Q.   How difficult is the challenge to getting a team that has a 3‑1 lead to maintain its level of intensity, knowing you can go back home if you don't get it tonight? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, I don't want any thought on any of that.   What we're focused on the last 24 hours is trying to push forward and have our best game on both sides of the court and really establish and impose our identity defensively, which helps our offense. 
We were able to get off to a good start last game and then played much more consistent minutes, but we're still capable of another level.   We're not there yet.   Then we have to understand that, and we understand the challenge. 
We've been in a lot of these games before, and they're extremely challenging.   A lot of these games, we've been down in the fourth quarter.   You're dealing with a very desperate team that, when a team gets their back against the wall like that, there's no other situation where they'll play harder.   Through experience, you have to learn that and understand that perspective. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT