NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 28, 2014
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Miami Heat - 90  
Indiana Pacers - 93  
   
 Q.   Erik, it's been a while since LeBron's gotten in that kind of rapid‑fire foul trouble.   How did you try to manage it during the game?   And what was the thought process about when to bring him back in with five?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   When he officially got to two, it was early enough in the first quarter, I just figured we'll get him back in the second quarter.   It's a long game.   Once it started to go the other way a little bit and we're struggling to get some continuity offensively in the fourth, I had to bring the guys back, and we went from there.   
Regardless of what happens, we still had enough opportunities to come away with a win.   We just couldn't get over the hump.   The stretch at the end of the third and beginning of the fourth was not one of our finer stretches, handling their pressure, just getting into offense, and executing.   They took advantage from there.   But we still had opportunities at the end.  
   
 Q.   Erik, Rashard Lewis stepped up big.   Was it part of the game plan, after LeBron went out, for him to step up and take shots that way?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No.   No, we just wanted him to be aggressive.   He'd been getting good looks in this series.   That's what everybody has been echoing to him.   As soon as it touches his hands, he's got to let it go.   He's got an absolute neon green light.   He's one of the best three‑point shooters in the history of the game.   We want him attacking his opportunities like that with a clear mind.   
Actually, we didn't even run a play for him.   
   
 Q.   What was the plan on the last play after the ball was in LeBron's hands?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Just look for a cut initially, get some movement, and then he had an opportunity to attack.   He was able to get into the paint.   Looked like he had some daylight.   Hibbert was coming.   
I think he saw C.B. open for a count in the corner, in his corner.   So he went for the kill.   We'll take that.   We'll take that look.   We'll take being able to get two feet in the paint, an opportunity to either score yourself or have an opportunity or spray to one of our better clutch three‑point shooters in his spot.   That actually was good to see that poise.  
   
 Q.   Erik, can you take anything away knowing LeBron played only 24 minutes, got in that foul trouble, still had a lot of turnovers, and still only lost the game by three or‑‑ can you take anything away as a moral victory from that at all?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No.   We had opportunities to take care of the ball better.   We know this is a possession series.   Anything can happen in a game, and you have to be able to manage it and find a way.   
This is one of those games where you just have to manage the storm and find a way, give yourself a chance to win at the end, make enough plays, and we didn't.   
Particularly on the defensive end, when we really needed to get two, three, four stops in a row, we weren't able to do that in the fourth quarter going down the stretch.   
   
 Q.   Coach, you just mentioned opportunities, ways.   You're heading back home.   Just your thoughts as you prepare your team?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, we'll collect ourselves and get ourselves ready for another great opportunity in front of our fans.   So we'll get ready for the game.  
   
 Q.   Erik, it was very uncharacteristic of you guys to turn the ball over 17 times.   What were the Pacers doing that created that situation for you?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   You have to give them credit.   They stepped up their pressure, as you would anticipate they would in front of their crowd.   Once they got us into a couple of sloppy possessions, their energy picked up.   
Paul George was great with his anticipation tonight, creating steals on different opportunities.   Sometimes it was on the ball.   Sometimes it was passing lanes, that type of thing.   So we have to do a better job about it.   We know that getting shots is one of the most important keys to the series for us.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT