NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 19, 2014
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It didn't matter what lines we had out there.   Every single one of them, big or small, it was the same thing.   They could consistently get to our defense.

Q.   Indiana came out with a lot of effort and energy.   Was that an issue last night when you look back on it? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   A little bit of everything.   To be frank about it, there was a lack of detail, lack of focus, lack of discipline, lack of effort.   Put that all in a bowl, and you get a bad result. 
It was pretty much across the board where we weren't sharp.   I understand that has to change.

Q.   What about individual matchups, Erik? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   There were a lot of different matchups where guys would be cross‑matched, guys would be matched up on guys at the start of the game.   Then during the course of the game, it changes.   It's no different than what we've done in the past. 
We do have to take that challenge one‑on‑one to set our defense, and then our five‑man defense has to be different.

Q.   You guys have been good about bouncing back after bad losses.   What does that say about this series? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I don't know.   We don't really care about what's happened in the past.   We have to understand the urgency of the response for tomorrow night.

Q.   Roy Hibbert has been in position underneath the basket.   What can you do to keep him out of that position under the basket? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Again, it's two contrasting styles, who can get to who, scheme.   For a long time, they got to their net.   They were able to mitigate our speed and quickness and activity.   We weren't able to get to that side.   They were in their paint, their comfort level, their wheelhouse.   That has to change.

Q.   What went into the thought in having Shane starting, especially putting him on Paul George and LeBron on David West.   We haven't seen that a lot.   What was sort of the thought in that? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Guys are going to play different matchups throughout the course of a game, and those guys have guarded those guys, not out of the gate, but they've been on them before.   It doesn't matter what matchup we select.   Our five‑man defense has got to be better than it was last night.

Q.   [No microphone] but he was active in the Bobcat series.   Did he have a setback along the way?
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, I want him to have this week of work, and we'll reevaluate him at the end of the week.   He was coming back and progressing.   He's able now to take the next step, and we're encouraged by that.

Q.   Was he playable against Charlotte when he was on the active list for that series? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah.   He's more along the road right now.   That's why we're spending this week to really ramp up his condition and everything.

Q.   Have you heard anything from the league regarding Mario? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I haven't heard anything.

Q.   Erik, only eight fouls in the first half, but you allowed a high percentage.   Second half, I think they shot 42 percent, but you guys committed 18 fouls.   Why the big difference? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   That's usually when you're slow and late.   You're out of position, and you're late, and you tend to try to make up for it by reaching and fouling and out of position, hand check late, in the paint, those type of things.

Q.   In particular, does your help have to meet the role man farther away from the basket? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's all of it.   I mean, really.   We looked at it.   I don't know if we've been that poor, certainly in the way we've graded it.   Since we put this team together across the board, that was about as poorly as we've played defensively, in all aspects of it. 
So it's the ball pressure.   It's the commitment on the ball.   It was the weak side.   It was finishing possessions.   It was doing it without fouling.   It has to be much better, a much more committed effort.

Q.   Does having LeBron away from the perimeter a big part of that or any part of that? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   That's part of it, but he's not always going to be in those situations.   We're a positionless team.   So guys are going to be in different regions of the court.   That's nothing new from what we've done now for over three years.   We just have to do it better. 
It was really tough to evaluate, first of all, whether we needed to do it better, we just needed to do what we do first.   We got caught in a lot of random situations that we aren't used to.

Q.   Erik, you guys are pretty sharp defensively at times in the series, particularly in the last couple of games.   Were you surprised that this kind of fell apart? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Again, you have to credit them.   We're not taking anything away from their game plan and what they brought to the table.   It's a compelling matchup.   We have to be good with what we do to be able to mitigate what they do. 
We didn't, so they were able to get right into their comfort zone, and they can pose some problems for us if we're not totally committed and dialed in and focused.

Q.   Is it unusual for you to have Hibbert defend Bosh? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   For part of it.   There will be possessions where he'll be on him, and there will be possessions where he's not.   Our game is to use our versatility as much as we can in different parts of our game.   So we're not always going to be matched up where he has to guard Chris, but there will be possessions where he is, and we're able to get to our game either way. 
Again, offensively, you know, even the way we shot the ball from three, all of our other numbers typically you would have a chance to play for it.

Q.   52 or 54 points in the paint but only 15 free‑throw attempts. 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, you have to find a way.   We're not pinning it on anybody.   This was our responsibility.   Only thing we have control over is our aggressiveness on one end, and I like the aggressiveness and our attack, our spacing to be able to get those 54 against a very good defensive team. 
On the other end, we're taking responsibility for being out of position and fouling when it might not have been necessary with better focus early on in the possession. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT