NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 18, 2014
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Erik, what did you see as the problems on defense, particularly on the pick‑and‑roll? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I mean, that's probably us at our worst defensively, and you have to give them credit.   They played well, and we never got into a rhythm where we could defend without fouling.

Q.   Erik, you guys struggled particularly from the three‑point line.   What was the problem there?   What were they doing that caused you so much damage from three? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I don't know.   We have the ability to win games if we're not knocking down a great, great percentage.   We had enough good looks. 
It's really the other side of the floor.   If you would say coming into the game we'd score 96 and have over 50 in the paint, I would say we'd be in the driver's seat for a win, if we do our normal, even anywhere close to our normal, defense.   That wasn't the case.

Q.   Erik, you pointed to the defensive side of the floor.   Why was it so difficult?   You guys didn't seem to take anything away. 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We just need to do it better.   Yeah, we need to do it better.   It's as simple as that.   We need to get to do what we do and then do that better.

Q.   Erik, can you explain why you went small with Battier at the start and how you think that played out in the game. 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I don't know if that had an effect or not.   I believe Shane's overall number was still a positive, but our overall disposition has to be much tougher, much stronger.   There's no question about it, regardless of who we have out on the court.

Q.   Will you go with Haslem?   You started the second quarter with him. 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's too early to say.

Q.   Greg was inactive tonight.   What's the thought with that?   Was it how he did last game against Hibbert? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No.   It's considered an important week for him.   After the back, he's been working really to get back out on the court.   In the last week or ten days, he's really been able to amp up his workouts. 
I want him to have a couple more very tough workouts this week, and we'll evaluate him at the end of the week.   He's feeling much better, and now he's finally getting back to the workload that he's been doing before.

Q.   So it was a back injury that's been keeping him out to this point? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, it's been earlier, three weeks ago as reported.   You know about that.   He's just been able to really get his workload back up to where it was before he got hurt.

Q.   Erik, what was the reasoning for starting Haslem in the second half? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Just to give us a little bit of size up front and see if we can get some stops and play off misses.   Neither half it worked out.

Q.   Coach, is this matchup particularly tough for Chris?   Is this a matchup where he's not going to feel‑‑ it's tougher for him to get into a rhythm offensively and do what he does, defensively especially, because he has to be more physical than maybe being able to be as active? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, for every one of our guys, it's a matchup collectively that we have to figure out.   That's the whole point of competition. 
So Chris has a great way of figuring things out as the series goes on and what's needed and what adjustments to make, and I anticipate he will. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT