NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 20, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Erik, three years of going through everything good, bad, all the stuff that you guys have gone through publicly and privately, have you ever figured out how LeBron is able to compartmentalize and keep the focus, as you would put it, on what goes on between those four lines?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Practice.   That's the world he's lived in.   This was an adjustment for us three years ago when we always looked out into a sea of people like this.   I'll still always remember that first training camp.   LeBron was doing that since he was in seventh grade.   
So he probably knows how to manage this world better than any of us before he even got to us.   
   
 Q.   Erik, you said before you didn't want your guys using the word "repeat."   You wanted this to be a new year and kind of a new experience.   Have you been pleased with the way they've been able to kind of shift from being champions to kind of going after something completely different this year?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, the one thing for sure is it's absolutely different.   This feels much, much different than last year.   And that's the point.   It's never the same.   It's always the most difficult thing you'll ever do collectively.   And that's what this is.   
We know in this game tonight we'll have to beat the Spurs at their best and that's the way it should be.   May the best team win.   
   
 Q.   Erik, at this point is there anything you can do as far as just managing the butterflies and just that pent up energy for when 9:00 comes around?  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, we're not going to overdramatize anything.   We'll go through our normal routine and get ready.   The guys are looking forward to this game.   We've been in these situations.   It doesn't guarantee anything.   But playing here at home, our guys are very excited about this opportunity.   
I know they don't take it for granted.   
   
 Q.   Are there any lineup changes for you?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I'll turn in my card in about 45 minutes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT