NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 18, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Erik, kind of the unwritten rule about playoff series is they get more physical as they go along.   After everything you've been through in these playoffs, does it surprise you there's been no talk of physicality, over‑the‑line flagrants, any of that in a series between these two teams? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   A different series.   It's a different challenge each series.   This is more about execution, precision, effort, focus, those kinds of things.   It's still physical, but it's clearly not anything going over the top. 

Q.   The always popular, are you staying with the same lineup as last game? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I'll turn in my card in 45 minutes. 

Q.   To follow it up, does anything different go into your lineup based on the last game, based on the totality of the series, based on the performance of the players and that five‑man starting group? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's more how than who, and that's been our focus yesterday and today.   How we want to play, what we want to bring to tonight in front of our fans.   The who is secondary to that. 

Q.   Erik, do you have any concerns with Mike Miller only attempting two three‑pointers in the last two games?   And what are some ways you can find some spots for him? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It depends on what happens during the course of the game.   Spacing helped in Game 4.   Our guys were able to get in the paint.   Last game we just didn't get to our game consistently enough, so it was hard to judge. 

Q.   Erik, in other series you've talked about playing to your identity.   In Game 4 you had the Mike Miller insertion.   In Game 5 Pop put in Ginobili.   Has this series turned into a chess game, if you will, of adjustments and counter‑adjustments? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's important to understand we're trying to win a basketball game.   Win the competition of basketball.   We're not trying to win chess.   When we lost in Game 5 it wasn't necessarily because of what we did wrong.   They did a lot of things right and they played much better than us and they deserved to win. 
So tonight is about our response. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT