NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 16, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat - 104
  San Antonio Spurs - 114 
   
 Q.   Erik, can you try to explain another start the way you started after a victory?   And then again, when you get it back to one, it almost was the same exact thing?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, I mean once we got it back to one and we felt that we had weathered the storm, then we missed a couple of shots that we normally are accustomed to making, and then it just snowballed down the hill from there.   And we couldn't control it.   I think it was a 19‑1 run after that point.   And so we just didn't show the mental resolve that we needed to at that point.   
   
 Q.   Erik, almost following up on that, end of the first was bad.   End of the third was bad.   It's been a trend at times in the playoffs.   Is it something you can put your finger on?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, we're going to have to look at it and we're going to have to answer that question.   There's no doubt about it.   
But we had weathered the storms, and again when we got it to one, we thought we were in a decent position on the road.   But it snowballed.   After we missed a couple of lay‑ups, a couple of fast breaks, then it turned into a five‑point swing right away.   Missed lay‑up, three going the other way.   That type of thing.   And then we just couldn't recover from there.   
   
 Q.   Erik, were you surprised when Ginobili was a starter?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No.   I anticipated that he would probably start or at least play a significant amount.   
   
 Q.   How do you consider his performance?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Obviously, he was very good.   Not only Ginobili, but basically everybody on their team was taking turns off the dribble, getting by us and breaking down our defense.   
   
 Q.   Coach, I know you used him before, but tonight you used those lineups without Cole or Chalmers a lot.   Did you like the spacing?   Did you see anything you like that you would go back to heavy minutes?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Once we went down, it's survival.   At that point whatever was working.   There were some good segments with those guys out there on the court, but it wasn't enough.   
   
 Q.   Erik, Danny Green has already in five games set an NBA Finals record for three‑pointers.   How unanticipated is it for you guys?   And why have you not been able to stop his momentum?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   That will be something that we have to correct, and we just got to do it better.   Got to do it harder, and be more committed.   He's getting some open looks, and he's making some contested looks.   But the open looks are the ones that are killing us.   
   
 Q.   Erik, they used Diaw on LeBron quite a bit more in this game than they had previously.   Were you anticipating that?   And how did you think generally he attacked that matchup?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Offensively we weren't very good tonight.   There were times where we crawled back into it, but we were not very efficient, did not move the ball the way we needed to, didn't have the necessary patience in those key times, end of the first, end of the third.   But we've seen basically every matchup.   They've put their bigs on our wings, and at times we're switching matchups.   So we've seen it.   We just weren't executing with any kind of precision.   
   
 Q.   Erik, just talk about the general predicament you're in, down 3‑2 heading home.   And what might you have learned to do differently from two years ago when you were in the same situation?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Every series is different.   You fight for that home court.   Our focus now, which is what we wanted to do in this game and we were a far cry from it, is to focus on playing our best game.   Can we put together our best game on both sides of the floor in Game 6.   We do feel good that we're going home for that game.   But we've got to earn back that home court.   And so our focus is only on the next game.   
   
 Q.   The fact that three out of eight teams have been in the situation have come back to win the final two at home in the 2‑3‑2 format, does that mean anything to you?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   You can't win a game with a statistic.   You've got to win it on the court.   
   
 Q.   Erik, another game you can't get anything consistent from Mario and Norris.   How big a problem is that for you?   And what can you do to get them going?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They have had their moments where they've played well.   Game 6 could be a different story.   Different guys will step up at different times.   And you just have to read the game.   We're looking forward to going home, and that's all the talk we had in the locker room is, can we put together our best game for Game 6?   Guys are looking forward to playing in front of our fans.   
   
 Q.   Do you like the shots that they're getting, that both those guys‑‑ are they missing good looks or is there something else to it?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It depends on when it happens, but in general during those key swings we didn't show the necessary poise offensively.   As much as them attacking us off the dribble hurt us, our offense hurt us at the key moments, because there were times where we played well offensively.   But there would be three‑ or four‑minute segments where we didn't, and we paid the price dearly.   
   
 Q.   Coach, you talked about them beating you off dribble, did you get caught on switches too much?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Everything.   Come on, they just absolutely outplayed us.   At times they were just picking one guy out at a time and going mano y mano.   That will change.   
   
 Q.   Will you keep this original lineup or will you go back to the Haslem instead of Miller?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT