NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 12, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Last night seemed to be the rare case where it might have been more about effort, hustle and energy than anything systematic.   Did you find that to be the case when you watched video?   And would that be troubling this late in sort of the process for guys not hustling back on defense, not giving maximum effort, considering the stage?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We talked about it last night.   We just had a film session about it.   You usually get what you deserve in this league.   In terms of teams putting forth more effort or more focus, more attention to detail.   They did that last night, and we paid the price for it.   Most of it was all of the little things.   
So now we're just moving on to Game 4.   We've bounced back many times, and it's about how we approach the next 24 hours to get ready for tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   Erik, first of all, what was it like for you in your room last night and this morning to watch that again?   And secondly, how do you close out in those three‑point shooters beyond just effort?   What can you do to close out?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We have to do it better.   We have a system that we believe in, that guys have built habits in.   They need each other to be able to do it.   Is it easy at this level?   No.   It never is.   And it's not easy for them to guard us either.   
So you have to be able to do multiple things against a very good team, and you have to do multiple things, multiple efforts with concentration and discipline to be able to win in The Finals at this level.   
   
 Q.   Erik, you always speak of identity among the collective.   And after you spoke last night LeBron was very adamant about how he wants it all on him‑‑  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, it's not all on him; it's all of us.   That's what we talked about in there.   Every single player in that locker room, the guys that played and what they brought to the game and the staff and what we brought to that game.   All of us collectively need to do a better job tomorrow night.   That's our focus the next 24 hours.   
   
 Q.   Erik, how much footage have you watched of them playing without Tony Parker?   And how might Parker's status‑‑  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   That's not our concern.   If we bring the level of effort and focus that we brought last night, it doesn't matter who plays for them.   
We're hoping he plays.   We want both teams to be healthy.   We don't want any excuses and they don't want any excuses either.   
   
 Q.   I know you just don't care about the externals at all.   I get that.   When LeBron can go into Boston last year in Game 6 and do what he did or Game 4 in Indiana and do what he did.   Is there ever any internal expectation when the chips are down, that's what has to come from him?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Look, we have great confidence from our guys and their ability to bounce back and respond in a big way.   And that's all our focus is the next 24 hours, how do we prepare ourselves to play our best game of the series tomorrow night.   That's the only thing that matters.   
LJ has proven himself enough in this league and on the biggest stage.   He is going to‑‑ he'll be better.   
   
 Q.   Erik, LeBron had his best perimeter numbers in his career this year from three and inside three.   Is there anything you're seeing on his jumper that's any different from what you've seen during the regular season?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No.   As long as he's getting his spots that he wants to, we'll work to get him in more comfortable spots, he'll take advantage, and we'll take advantage.   
Look, last night was a game that we did not play necessarily well offensively, and it affected us on the other end.   It was a game that we could have kept closer and have a chance to win at the end.   But obviously we did not.   
   
 Q.   Hey, Coach, when you look at film of their offensive rebounds and especially Kawhi's offensive rebounds, what are you seeing?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Right now it's just great pursuit.   It's not from being run around from the shooters or rotations.   He just has a knack for it and is going for it every time.   So we have to contend with him like we would any big offensive rebounder.   He just does it from the small forward position.   
He's having a tremendous impact on the series so far with his rebounding.   The two of them combined have equaled offensive rebounds that we have as a team.   And we have to deal with that.   
   
 Q.   Do you think when you look at LeBron sometimes, do you think it's almost that he's showing the opponent too much respect rather than imposing his will and doing what he can do?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   No, I really don't.   We just played collectively a very bad basketball game last night.   And that was everybody, including the staff.   It was hard to really judge anything and evaluate anything from that game.   That's why after the film session, all we're focused on is how we prepare the next 24 hours to have our best game of the series tomorrow night.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT