NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 11, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Miami Heat - 77
San Antonio Spurs - 113

COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, we got what we deserved tonight. 

Q.   Erik, how unfathomable on this stage is it to have the offensive numbers you had, especially coming of a Game 2 and that huge run?   You figure you had momentum.   Is it unthinkable the offense goes so awry tonight? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I don't even want our guys bringing up that side of the floor.   If that's what we're going to pinpoint this to, we're kidding ourselves.   We really are. 
We got what we deserved.   They got into an incredible rhythm, even in the first quarter.   Every shot they wanted to get they got.   We did not disrupt them.   And then that's the flow.   And it just went from there.   We never got to our game.   The easy ones, rhythm, playing off misses, and then the three‑point barrage happened after that. 

Q.   Erik, what do you do tomorrow to get LeBron back into this? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   He'll figure it out.   He always figures it out.   I'm not concerned about that.   We'll work to make sure that he's getting to places he can be comfortable and confident. 
We're kidding ourselves if we're going to point at the 77 points.   That is factor.   You have to play both ends.   But we got what we deserved.   They got into an incredible rhythm, and we were playing from behind from virtually the start. 

Q.   Erik, you talked about the three‑point barrage.   How much was the fact they just shot great?   How much was the effort in getting out to the shooters? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Both.   I mean, they have great shooters.   We have great shooters.   If you're not doing your job and doing it early and doing it with focus and discipline, guys get open.   And that's what happened.   They got all the easy ones they wanted first, and then the same thing with our shooters.   When you get easy ones, the basket starts to look bigger and bigger.   And they got them in every single way they needed to, little drives, offensive rebounds, transition.   We got what we deserved tonight. 

Q.   Erik, you keep repeating "we got what we deserved."   Can you explain exactly what you mean? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   You know what I mean by that.   It's pretty obvious.   They played with more force and more focus.   The teams that do that typically get what you deserve.   They outplayed us, outclassed us from the very tip. 

Q.   Erik, you said you need to get LeBron in places where he's more comfortable and more confident.   Hard to remember times when he wasn't comfortable and confident on the court.   What's happening out there, in your opinion? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They're packing the paint, playing off him.   So we'll make those adjustments in the next couple of days. 
But the most disappointing thing for us in that locker room is to look at each other and to know that we let ourselves down tonight, in terms of the competitiveness and focus that we needed to bring.   They'll have to improve the next 48 hours. 

Q.   Erik, you guys last year's playoffs, sometimes this year's playoffs, have almost been team resilience.   Is there a concern you're playing with too much fire or is there a confidence that you've overcome all the adversity these last two years and can again? 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I don't know if you can point to the history.   I don't even know if that's relevant.   The only thing that matters is we're down 2‑1 and we did not bring anywhere near our best game tonight.   I didn't recognize the team that was out there. 

Q.   Coach, one bright spot, can you address Mike Miller's three‑point shooting performance. 
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   He's one of the best shooters I've ever seen, and so he proved it on a big stage.   But collectively we didn't do enough to make those matter. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT