NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 6, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Erik, there's been a couple of days off.   Has that extra treatment time been in any way beneficial to Dwyane's knee or to Chris Bosh's ankle? 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I hope so.   We'll find out when we get out there.   The more time they get, the better they feel.   Hopefully they'll be able to take off from where they left off in Game 7. 

Q.   Coach, what are the biggest challenges defensively against the Spurs? 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, they play a similar style to us.   They play fast, they get in the open court.   I think that's a misconception about how they play.   Their pace is very quick.   They open up the court.   Tony Parker and Ginobili can create a lot of opportunities for their three‑point shooters.   They also get into the paint.   So you have to cover a lot of ground.   In some ways it's similar to defending against us in practice; you have so many things to contend with. 
We'll see how it goes. 

Q.   What's the biggest challenge in defending Parker on the pick‑and‑roll without compromising your three‑point defense? 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, we have to be aggressive.   We have to be disruptive.   We have to be smart about it.   We can't be cavalier with our decisions.   But we do have to cover ground, and we've built those habits now for over 100 games. 
The most important thing is our motor, our energy level, to be able to disrupt. 

Q.   Coach, going back to last year, this exact time last year and now, right now, what are you feeling mentally, emotionally as compared to last year? 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   All three years have been different.   And that's the point we made to our team at the beginning of training camp, that the journey is different.   We can't expect it to feel the same.   In some ways the hardest part is avoiding all the landmines to get to this point.   And now our guys can just focus on basketball and concentrate on the highest level of competition. 
And we felt that the Spurs were the best team in the West all season long.   We didn't get a chance to play either team full squad, but our guys are looking forward to this. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 
ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT