NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 6, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio Spurs - 92
  Miami Heat - 88 
  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, it's pretty clear.   There were plays to be made, and our offensive inefficiency going down the stretch.   Most of the fourth quarter probably hurt us more than anything.   So we got to gather ourselves and get ready for Game 2.   
   
 Q.   Erik, we saw that you managed to give a lot of minutes to Wade, more rotation between your players.   Is that a plan you're going to use all series or were you trying to make something happen and jump start the shot of Ray Allen, Shane Battier, just give any more confidence to the guys?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We'll see.   Every game could be something different.   I like the minutes that the rotation guys gave us.   And that typically gives us a burst in the fourth quarter, but we were unable to get to that.   
   
 Q.   Coach, what was the play or plan drawn up with a minute left when Bosh took that three from the wing down four?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We had an opportunity to get into the paint.   He was open.   Probably open for a reason at that point.   But we had a couple of different options, triggers to get guys into the paint or to get into another situation.   
You know what, we'll take that shot.   He's been making those.   It's an open shot in the fourth quarter.   It didn't come down to that.   There were more plays going down the stretch.   Turnovers, random possessions where we didn't get to where we wanted to like that.   We didn't get the shots that we wanted to.   And some of those loose balls, offensive rebounds in the fourth quarter really hurt.   
   
 Q.   Erik, from about that 7:00 mark, they seemed to take a little bit of control, some of the things you mentioned.   Can you think back now, what was the cause for some of that offensive inefficiency?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We had some poor possessions.   There's nothing really you can point a finger at right now until I go back to the film.   There were a couple of uncharacteristic turnovers.   Three of them in the fourth quarter.   Uncharacteristic.   And probably three or four possessions where we didn't get organized where we typically get into, and the ball didn't go where it needed to go.   
   
 Q.   And you had the lead for a lot of the game.   You were never able to get any spread on them.   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   That might be the series.   Come on, this is The Finals.   It's elite basketball right now.   There's not a large margin for error either way.   We had some empty possessions, and it cost us.   If we execute the way we typically do going down the stretch, we probably have enough.   
Both teams were held well below their average.   They got their normal‑‑ we could live with some of the actions they got going down the stretch, but we weren't very good offensively.   
   
 Q.   Erik, you had a comfortable lead, just never a big lead, but you held it kind of throughout the game.   When they went on a little bit of a run in the fourth, did you notice any sense of panic?   Any sense of what to do next?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Not necessarily.   We've been in every situation.   During the year we had 15, 20 games where we were down by ten and had to find a way or up and lose a lead.   We've been in every situation you can.   That's not an excuse.   We just didn't execute and they did.   Reallyit came down to a handful of possessions.   Those possessions were up for grabs.   Whoever makes those plays wins the game.   And they did.   
   
 Q.   To follow up, obviously San Antonio doesn't turn the ball over very much.   That's the trademark of a Pop team.   To only get four, can you imagine something like that, the way you guys turn people over?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, they take care of the basketball well.   We defended them actually okay.   They shot 42%.   It wasn't for lack of effort.   Some teams just move the ball better.   But our turnovers in the fourth quarter, and a couple of those loose ball, offensive rebounds really hurt us.   
   
 Q.   Erik, can you take us through the final possession with Tony Parker and just the ups and downs within that‑‑  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, I'll have to take a look at it.   That seemed like a 26‑second possession.   But we played it all the way through.   That's probably what this series is about.   It's going to go down to the last 10th of a second.   Every single play you have to push through all the way to the end, and we didn't.   
He was able to scramble.   There was a couple of loose balls where it might have been an opportunity to make it a jump ball, and then he just broke through.   You can't leave it to chance, even if it's right there at the end of the clock, a body in front.   Hopefully you try to make him shoot over the top.   
But he made a tough play.   That doesn't guarantee anything.   He made a tough play, and you have to give him credit for that.   
   
 Q.   The fact that it was LeBron that was in front of him at the very end leaving his feet, is there any other better scenario for you than to have LeBron James in that spot at that moment?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Yeah, I mean, that's probably why this series is great theater.   You have a lot of compelling not only team matchups but individual matchups.   
   
 Q.   The stretch in the fourth quarter without a field goal, especially the turnover by Mario Chalmers and the 24‑second violation, did they change anything up there?   Or was that a simple fact‑‑  
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Both teams were defending.   Not necessarily there wasn't an adjustment, we just didn't get organized into what we wanted to.   And we paid the price for that big time.   
   
 Q.   Erik, how much do you sort of resist the urge to overcompensate and adjust on Tony Parker when they have so many different playmakers that can obviously come through in the game?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It'll still come down to doing what we do, doing it better.   We'll have to get into the film to see areas we can adjust.   But again, against a very good basketball team, you hold them to 42%, you hold them 92, normally with our offense, we think we're in the driver's seat.   
But there's a small margin of error both ways.   And you have to make plays every single possession.   And when you don't and you don't concentrate on the things you need to, you pay the price.   Both teams do.   They paid the price, too, during the course of the game.   
We just have to regroup.   We've been through a lot.   We've shown resolve and toughness.   And now we just have to get back to work, and make sure we're doing better all the way through to the last hundred‑tenth of a second.   
   
 Q.   Erik, you played them even at the beginning of the fourth quarter, but we haven't seen you go without Dwyane or LeBron on the floor together at the same time much recently.   What was the thought process behind that?   
COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They both just needed a breath.   It was a quick one for LeBron.   That was the deal.   And Chris was able to hold the fort.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT