NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 30, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Coach, do you put anything into the numbers so far with your small lineups versus the big lineups?   Seems like you've been better defensively with the smaller lineups.   Is it a quickness thing or do you think it's too small of a sample to put much into it? 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   I mean, that's similar to the way we played during the year, so it hasn't changed too much.   But obviously you have two different dynamics going after each other that makes for compelling basketball to watch. 
    We have a couple of different ways and different rotations.   We play big sometimes, but smaller lineups are a big part of what we do. 

Q.   Is there anything Bosh can do differently to position himself for more rebounds? 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, we have to do a better job at the point of our defense, contain the ball, keeping it out of the paint.   This team is big; they're physical enough.   They have enough habits that the ball gets into the paint, our bigs are conditioned, they come to help, and then it becomes a perimeter against a big to rebound. 
    So we're consistently beat off the dribble in a lot of different ways on pick‑and‑rolls, straight line drives.   All of it got us in trouble in Game 5.   And at that point you're in rotation, and so you have people out of position. 
    But if we contain better and defend the way we're capable, we'll be in better position and I think we'll rebound better. 

Q.   Erik, you've had inexperienced teams and experienced teams.   How much do you think experience helps in a big game like tonight? 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We've been through so much together.   We've learned from our experiences, but we also know that doesn't guarantee you anything.   What this is is competition at its best, and there's not a large margin of error for either team either way.   You have to play hard, you have to compete, you have to win those competitive skirmishes, the loose balls, the rebounding, 50‑50s.   But in addition to that, that's not enough.   You have to play well. 
    So we have to have a great attention to detail to our game, to impose our identity.   We play‑‑ I don't know what percentage‑‑ but a large percentage of that game we played on their terms.   Their pace, their style.   We have to probably still win a game or two that way.   And we had an opportunity down the stretch up by three, but we want to dictate the identity of the game.   And it takes a great deal of focus and commitment for us to be able to do it.   We want to play this game on our terms. 

Q.   Do you think the experience and competence that you've earned gives you a better chance to fulfill those qualities? 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Well, I think the experience gives you an ability to compartmentalize and focus on the task.   When you first play in a competitive series like this, it's human condition to get caught up in all the other factors, the storylines, the what‑ifs, the things you can't control, officiating, whatever it may be. 
    We've been through enough battles now that we can focus on the game and what we need to do, the task.   Our hands are full enough just with the things we need to do to beat the Indiana Pacers rather than focus on all the other things. 
    In terms of that, our experience today was just a very focused, efficient day.   But that doesn't guarantee you anything. 

Q.   (No microphone).
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   He doesn't want to talk about the ankle.   He's not making any excuses.   Everybody will be ready to go.   And we expect him to perform. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT