NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 28, 2013
Erik Spoelstra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Miami Heat       92
      Indiana Pacers         99

    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It's playoff competition at its best.   They got us there in the fourth.   We got what we wanted, it was a fourth‑quarter lead, 89‑86 going down the stretch.   And they made bigger plays.   Their offensive rebound is obviously second life, that was probably the biggest difference in the game in the fourth quarter. 

Q.   You just mentioned the rebounds, seems like it was a big issue tonight more than it has been in this playoff.   Hibbert especially.   You guys have had trouble dealing with him. 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We have to overcome it.   We have to do it better.   More of a collective commitment to finish our defense.   We had three or four very good committed defensive possessions all the way to the contest, to the last five seconds of the clock, and we couldn't finish it for whatever reason.   It's going to take a collective effort when you have bigs like that, to sometimes double‑team, rebound, long rebounds.   We have to get all of those.   They got all the loose balls and long rebounds in that fourth quarter. 

Q.   Erik, how much did Chalmers' foul trouble impact your team tonight? 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   It doesn't matter.   We had several guys in foul trouble.   Last time LeBron fouled out of a playoff game was last year in Boston.   So it doesn't happen very often.   Dwyane was in foul trouble the whole game.   CB was in foul trouble. 
    You have to overcome a lot in the playoffs.   It's not easy to compete for a title.   So we just went to other guys, and end of the day we still had an opportunity. 
    In the playoffs, on the road, you're up by three, handful of minutes to go.   Again, the way we are, we pride ourselves in closing out games.   And we weren't able to. 

Q.   Erik, what were some of the breakdowns you saw in the last three minutes?   You talked about being up four at home, and you were up three this time. 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   Sometimes it's different things.   This one was finishing our defense.   When we had opportunities, like I said, to finish the last five seconds all the way to the rebound, secure the possession, then go down and execute where we feel very confident. 
    But we just couldn't corral those second chances.   Really I have to go back to the film, but it seemed like that was the biggest difference. 

Q.   In what ways do you think Stephenson impacted the game tonight? 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   We had that big bucket down the stretch.   You can say that the momentum‑changing three at the end of the third.   Really, that was irrelevant by the time we got down to the last stretch of the fourth; we were up by three. 
    So he's an X factor.   We know that.   But we still had an opportunity to win.   Up with a chance to get a stop, and execute going down the stretch.   Even then when it became tied and two‑point game going back and forth, we just couldn't finish our defense. 

Q.   What about LeBron in the post?   LeBron was 1‑for‑6 in the post tonight compared to what he did, destroying them last time.   Why? 
    COACH ERIK SPOELSTRA:   They did a better job defending it and getting more bodies in the paint.   So we'll have to be more efficient with our attack in that game. 
    That's what this series is about.   Who can get to who and do it for longer periods of time.   They kept us out of the paint.   We were able to get to the free‑throw line a little bit.   Good defense.   There were a couple of offensive fouls which skewed it a little bit.   I'm not sure what would have happened.   One of those possessions it looked like Dwyane was breaking free to get into the paint.   Those are the breaks of the game. 
    So we'll just have to do it better.   More committed.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT