NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: HURRICANES v RED WINGS
June 8, 2002
Mathieu Dandenault
Martin Gelinas
Sean Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SEAN HILL: We couldn't have asked for anything more that period, especially with the time we spent in the box.  Continued to try and play on edge and it cost us a little bit.  I am not sure if I agree with all the calls; we just have to play through it. 
 
Q.  You had a big advantage in hits as a team; you had the big hit on Yzerman.  How does that factor in the aggressiveness with the tight calling?
 
SEAN HILL: That's the thing; you really got to walk that fine line.  If you are not careful you are going to end up in the box.  We have got to be a little bit more careful.  On the other hand, we have to be hitting them playing physically, otherwise we're not playing our game 
 
MATHIEU DANDENAULT: We have got to be smarter in the offensive zone, not throw it blind in front.  But I thought we had some good sustained pressure too, and they seemed to be running around a little bit.  They got some penalties, stuff like that.  We have got to capitalize on our powerplay. 
 
Q.  Two Cups, 1997, 1998 for you.  You were sort of the extra guy.  Now you are in that lineup all the time, are paired with Steve Duchesne.  What's the experience been like for you to be paired with a guy who doesn't have a Cup?
 
MATHIEU DANDENAULT: It has been great, you know, he's a great player and his game has really stepped up for the Playoffs and he's playing unbelievably and we're having a lot of fun out there.  It is nice to be a part of it all, just to sweat through it with the guys, and see what they went through in 1997, 1998 and we have just got to stay positive, keep plugging away and good things will happen. 
 

Q.   Looks like the Hurricanes have the trap working again tonight.  Should we expect they will try to suffocate the Wings in the neutral zone the rest of the way now that you have got the lead?
 
MARTIN GELINAS: They got so much speed and talent up front.  We've got to play a good trap and we got to do it quick and game No. 2 in Detroit, we didn't do it as quick, and they capitalized on a lot of our mistakes.  We're trying to do that a little better tonight. 
 
Q.  Looks like you are trying to play with more discipline.  On the other hand, you had to kill off three powerplays in the first period.  Has the message sunk in yet that the referees are calling everything in this series?
 
MARTIN GELINAS: I think both teams are aware of that and our pick (sic) has been outstanding for last three games, and we need that.  They got so much power up front.  At the same time we got to be more careful.  They are calling a lot of things that they usually don't call so we have got to be more careful on the ice. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT