BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS CZECH REPUBLIC
April 19, 2017
Petr Pala
Kristyna Pliskova
Katerina Siniakova
Denisa Allertova
Marketa Vondrousova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  What are your impressions of Saddlebrook?  
CAPTAIN PALA: Well, I would say great.  I mean, great weather.  Feeling almost like on holidays.   
But we still have some work to do, I think, on the weekend.  We are enjoying it, but unfortunately we cannot enjoy it too much.  Looking forward for the weekend.   
Played four holes golf yesterday.  I haven't been to the pool yet, but some of us went already.  I think we're really enjoying.   
It's great.  I mean, I have some information from home.  It's around, I don't know, zero degrees.  I cannot complain.   
 Q.  Kristyna, what are you expecting out of the American team this weekend?  How does that affect your team?  
KRISTYNA PLISKOVA: It's my first Fed Cup, so I don't even know if I will play it.  They have a quite strong team.  But we are all looking forward for the weekend.   
 Q.  Captain, you are missing some of your higher-ranked Czech players this weekend.  How does that affect your team?  
CAPTAIN PALA: Well, we're very confident, as I said, looking forward for the tie with some new players.  They all great players.  They climbing on the rankings, so that's good.   
Well, I think the U.S. team will be the favorites, slightly favorite.  But it's only on the paper.  I think all the girls can put great performance.  We going to try hard as we can to bring three points home.   
 Q.  Denisa, what does it mean to you to play in Fed Cup?  
DENISA ALLERTOVA: Well, it's something special if you get a chance, especially in the semifinal.  Every time I get a chance to be here on this amazing team, it's something special.  I'm so glad that I got this chance to be here.   
I hope that we can win.  We will see.   
 Q.  Kristyna, if you happen to play, you've had some very tough matches against most of the guys on the American team.  What is your impression of the lineup that the U.S. will throw out there?  
KRISTYNA PLISKOVA: Well, I played I think every girl from the team.  It's clay, which is not my best surface.  I mean, Coco is not clay player, too.  We will see, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT