A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 12, 2019
Scott Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your first round as a full-fledged member of the PGA TOUR and you open with a 64. How exciting for you.
SCOTT HARRINGTON: Yeah, I mean, it was a lot of fun. I enjoyed myself the whole day. Not too many nerves or anything like that. Felt good on the first tee; felt good just coming right out of the gates. Hit a pretty good wedge and then made a nice putt on the 1st hole. Kind of calmed me down a little bit.
Yeah, felt really good all day. Actually swing felt a little loose out there at times. Kind of not how it's been feeling lately. Yeah, just scored well, putted well, pace was nice. Really pretty stress-free.
Q. You know, they say everyone has a game plan until they take a punch. You hit a bad drive on the 16th hole. Interested to see how you would react. On 17, laid up and then make birdie. I thought that was a great birdie to bounce back like that for you.
SCOTT HARRINGTON: Yeah, really just to make the bogey on 16 was really big. I hit my next shot in the fairway, but I had a tricky little 40-yarder with no green to work with and really clipped it nicely and got up and down for bogey.
Yeah, then to play good -- 17 was playing dead into the wind, playing really long. Played four really nice shots and converted the putt to make a birdie.
And then to make a nice little putt on the last hole, yeah, I got a lot of confidence right now. I've been playing where well the last month or two.
It's just golf is golf. Doesn't matter where you're playing, here or the Korn Ferry.
Q. Every player has a different time schedule. Not everyone is a Matthew Wolff out here. You spent years getting to the PGA TOUR. Has to be tremendously rewarding to be here after all the hard work you put in.
SCOTT HARRINGTON: It really is. I always did think I was going to get here. My age didn't really deter me. I felt like I was only progressing. The progressions were small every year, but I was never taking a step back. I've maintained my length; actually gotten longer.
Even though I'm 38 years old, I feel like I'm every bit as capable of winning out here as any 22 year old. Yeah, age is just a number. I feel like as long as you keep your length up and your health and mentally you're sound, I know there are great things out there for me.
Q. You only get one chance to have your first round as a PGA TOUR member, and you pull it off with a 64. What does it mean to you to end that firs round after waiting so long for this round, and to deliver with such a good score?
SCOTT HARRINGTON: It's just kind of validation. I feel like I've been really playing well the last couple months and really progressing nicely. I feel like mentally I'm really, really good right now; never letting anything bother me.
To come out and do it on the PGA TOUR in the first attempt, yeah, it feels great. I've said it a bunch of times. It's just golf. It's no different than what I was doing a month ago on the Korn Ferry. It's a golf course I feel comfortable on and I know there are good scores out there for me.
With all that, all the circumstances surrounding today, be easy to get caught up in it. I feel like I did a really good job of just enjoying myself and playing loose and enjoying the guys I was playing with and my caddie.
I'll certainly remember this one for sure. I'll remember it even more if I can put a few more good ones together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT