NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 14, 2004
Rob Davison
Patrick Marleau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Patrick, can you -- Vinny just talked about how he thought Alex was trying to get you the puck at the end.  Is that also what you thought?  What did you think of both guys, what transpired, how the team is starting to maybe get a bit of a hate-on for each other three games in? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I think Alex, he kind of looked over at me, so I thought he -- he wanted to try to get the puck to me.  I just tried to go to the net. 
 Ended up getting in front of him, so he had no choice but to stop and wait till we went by to put it in.  That's an unselfish play by him trying to get me the puck. 
 ROB DAVISON:  The question about having a hate-on for each other, I think that's just going to happen over a seven-game series.  You know, things happen in Game 1, Game 2, Game 3 that are going to continue on for the rest of the series.  I don't think it's so much a hate-on.  It's just competitiveness of the hockey game. 
 Q.  Is that something that you guys enjoy?  Calgary media noticing that, it's almost like the Flames like it better that way.  Is that something you guys enjoy as well when the series starts getting nasty?  Is it almost easier to play?  Does the play pick up? 
 ROB DAVISON:  I don't think it's something we're going to shy away from.  Personally, I like when guys are going to play competitively, come after me, stuff like that.  So it's something I enjoy.  It's nothing our team is going to shy away from. 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  You know, the competitiveness is great as long as it's clean, I think.  If things start getting dirty, we'll try and turn the other cheek, and hopefully we'll get the calls we need. 
 Q.  Your coach called it a black eye on an otherwise good game.  Do you agree with that or disagree? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I have to go with the coach on that one? 
 Q.  This is starting to evolve on a physical level.  Have the other series been as physical?  Is it the Flames, a certain style they play, that's bringing it up? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I think all series we have been in have been pretty physical.  Calgary is a fast-game team.  They're allowed to get on you, get their hits more so than I think the other teams. 
 Q.  Patrick, do you notice more forechecking now in the last year?  You do it, Calgary does it, Tampa.  Do you see the game evolving any way or is it just the way these couple of games have been played? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I don't think.  I think it's just the way we play right now.  I think that's our keys to the game, is having the first guy get in and get on the defenseman, trying to make them make a mistake, get on them, get a stick on them, try to make them cough it up so you can counter. 
 Q.  I guess Team Canada will be announced for the World Cup.  I wonder, your name has been bandied about.  You're busy in a playoff series, but could you give us a comment or thought on it about your hopes or dreams? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I wasn't aware of that.  No, that would be a great honor to be named.  You know, it's kind of tough right now to think about all that, too.  Definitely it would be an honor. 
 Q.  Patrick, in the Colorado series after winning the first three games, maybe you had a sense it was slipping away, had to get it back, you did in Game 6.  Do you feel the same way going into the game last night after losing the first two at home?  Were you able to draw on that feeling? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  Yeah, definitely.  It was desperation hockey on our part.  You know, it's going to be the same way next game.  We have to come with that same desperation and play hard, work for our chances.  Hopefully they'll go in for us. 
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Korolyuk, the difference in the player he is this year after going to Russia for a year, and why is he such a good NHL player this year?  What are the changes he made in his game? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I think Ronnie has helped him out a lot, let him play his game.  He's a competitor.  Just kind -- I don't know, just maybe left him alone that lot that brought that out in him.  You know, he wants to win.  He's out there, he has great skills.  I think the main thing is he doesn't want to let his teammates down.  You know, that's all you can ask of your teammate. 
 Q.  Did he have trouble getting on the same page with Sutter? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  I'm not too sure about that situation.  Probably have to ask him more so than me. 
 Q.  Could you comment on Vinny Damphousse, been in the league almost 20 years, what he's taught you, what you've seen from him that's helped your own game or growth as a person, line mate, teammate? 
 ROB DAVISON:  I think the biggest thing I've learned from Vinny is how to be professional.  He's a class guy, he's unbelievable in the room, really great with the younger players.  I've learned a lot from him this year. 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  Pretty much the same thing.  He's a professional.  Just the way he approaches the game, even keel he has.  He doesn't get too high, too low.  That's one of the main things a young player can take away from him.  It's not too much of a rollercoaster ride for Vinny.  He's been through it all.  He keeps a level head about everything. 
 Q.  How are you working your way through the frustration of not being able to score the last several games?  What do you think it's going to take to crack that? 
 PATRICK MARLEAU:  Just keep working hard.  Probably been on maybe three or four two-on-one's.  A bounce here or there, you get back on the boards.  Can't worry about the games that have gone by; just got to look forward to the next game and work hard.  Hopefully, we can get a win going home and that will help a lot. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT