NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLAMES v SHARKS
May 11, 2004
Rob Davison
Brad Stuart
Scott Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  You struggled a bit in the first period in the series.  Any reason in particular, do you think?   
 SCOTT THORNTON:  No, I don't really have a reason.  I can't think of any excuses, that's for sure.  We obviously weren't ready for play tonight.  We pretty much continued that for 60 minutes.   
  Q.  Talk about going to Calgary down 2-0 in the series.  Obviously tough.   
 SCOTT THORNTON:  Yeah, we would have liked to have won a game here, that's for sure.  I think if you can look at our game tonight, we pretty much struggled all the way through our lineup tonight.  Maybe that can be a positive, to know that tonight wasn't our best effort.  We can obviously offer a lot more.   
  Q.  The first shift, what happened from your vantage point?   
 SCOTT THORNTON:  You know what, I don't know what happened.  Forecheck in the corner.  I think it was a three-on-three coming back.  A shot went off a skate or leg or something, went in.  I think our guys were in position to get back.  You know, just one of those bounces you get in playoffs.   
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 SCOTT THORNTON:  Probably.  I think both teams, you know, like to get the opportunity to win the game offensively.  We didn't allow a lot of shots, but we didn't create any either.  We obviously have to, you know, work a lot harder collectively through the lineup and start to win some battles.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel comfortable out there?   
 ROB DAVISON:  I'm not going to lie to you, there were some big-time jitters.  Playoffs, it's been my dream to get in there.  To actually get in there, there were definitely some jitters.   
 I'm sure, you know, guys who have been there before in the playoffs, there's still going to be some jitters definitely.   
  Q.  Has it been a little frustrating?  Obviously, this is your first time.  Guys made a few more mistakes than they normally do.   
 ROB DAVISON:  I mean, you're just facing different types of teams, St. Louis, Colorado, now Calgary.  They have a harder-working team of all three, in my opinion.  It's just something you have to adjust to, and hopefully we can go in there and give it to them in Calgary.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 BRAD STUART:  Yeah, I think for the most part we were.  You know, we didn't do a lot of things that we usually do.  They were ready to play.  They came out and played hard.  You know, we fell behind and couldn't get back into it.   
  Q.  You are a team that normally starts fast, always a good first-period team.  What do you think it is, down 2-0?   
 BRAD STUART:  We just need to prepare a little better.  We just need to be ready, you know. They're going to come at us a little more than we were used to in the past two series.  We got to adjust to that.  We haven't really done that.  You know, we've paid the price for it.   
  Q.  Heading to Calgary down 2-0, obviously not a great position to be in.   
 BRAD STUART:  Yeah, we've chosen to bring this on ourselves.  We've got to get back into it the hard way.  It wasn't the way we want to do it, but a game's a game, doesn't really matter where it's played.  You have to get back into it.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT