SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 24, 2017
Kameron Kelly
Trey Lomax
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SDSU - 35, New Mexico - 10   
 Q.  Did it end the way you wanted it to?  
TREY LOMAX: Definitely.  Not that last drive so much, the interception at the end, I got a little lazy in coverage.  But definitely the way we wanted to end the season.   
 Q.  You didn't accomplish everything that you set out to do this season, but you finished with four great wins and you bounced back.  How do you feel like you played the last month?  
KAMERON KELLY: I mean, this is what we tried to do.  When we went into that little slump, we just kind of talked to each other, like we can't let it get any worse than it's already gotten.  We've got to keep just working hard.  We've got to go out there and stop thinking so much.   
I feel like we lost those two games because we were thinking about not losing instead of just going out there and playing to win.  So we started doing that, and everything started picking back up.   
 Q.  Is it really that simple?  
TREY LOMAX: Yeah, I mean, for the most part.  Once we lost those two games, we were kind of in that tough spot.  So the next game was a big priority to bounce back, get a win, and get back on track.  We still knew in the season we had a lot of things we could accomplish.  We just wanted -- was it, the 11th game, 10th game, there are only a handful of teams that probably do that every year with still a bowl game to go.  So that was big.   
We knew guys still had a lot to play for, and I'm really happy with how we bounced back after the first two games and finished the season the way we did.   
 Q.  Trey, when you have a bowl game still to play, do you get emotional in your last game in the stadium?  
TREY LOMAX: I mean, it hit me a little bit today after we took the pictures with your family and you're walking through the helmet and they're announcing your name, your hometown, you go out there and you kind of take it in it's your last game playing in the stadium.  It hit me a little bit then, but once the game got going, you kind of lose track of that.  At the end though, you take it all in again.   
It's surreal knowing it's your last time playing at home in front of all these fans and being with your teammates that you love.  You fought and scratched with the last couple of years, blood, sweat and tears.  It kind of hits you a little bit after that last whistle.   
 Q.  Rashaad had another game over 200 yards, over 2,000 for the season.  Given what happened with the start of the week with the Doak Walker, what did that mean to you guys?  
KAMERON KELLY: Is it even really an award?   
TREY LOMAX: What else did he have to do?   
KAMERON KELLY: You're supposed to give it to the best running back, and we had the best running back, and he's not even a finalist.  I don't know.  People are politicking.  There's nothing we could really do besides just keep handing him the ball and showing the world that he should have been a finalist.  That's all we can do.   
I know he's not really worried about it.  As big of a deal as everybody else makes about it, he could care-a-less.  He just wants to score touchdowns and run the ball and win, honestly.  I feel like if he didn't have over a hundred yards today and we won, he wouldn't care just as longs with we win out right on Senior Day.  Because we have 17 seniors, and all of us have put the work in.  It means just as much to us, or just as much to somebody who doesn't play for him to have those yards as it does to him.   
 Q.  Trey, just wanted to ask you about Tariq.  What do you see -- or both of you guys, you both played back-up with him.  What do you guys see in him now?  He starts the season with an interception.  Ends the season with two, true freshman, what are you guys seeing?  
KAMERON KELLY: I mean, he's definitely athletically gifted.  I think the biggest reason we've been so successful is he's so coachable.  We're at practice, and he's like a sponge.  Everything you tell him, he absorbs and he takes into consideration.  He takes all the coaching from all the coaches.  You know, he keeps his mouth shut, just goes about his business and works hard.   
So I think the reason he has that personality and the way he is at practice, the way he's so approachable and coachable by everybody, I think that's the big reason he's so successful.  I'm really excited for him.  He's a true freshman, so the sky's the ceiling for him.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you guys kind of given him stuff through the year because he's a freshman?  
KAMERON KELLY: No, when we first got here during camp, I remember me and Trey were talking about, if anyone's going to play, it's going to be him.  I just felt like the future's in great hands because he reminds me of Rashaad his freshman year.  Just the fact that he was so nice and so coachable, and the fact that he listens to everything.  You can see it when you look in his eye and you're telling him about something or talking about the game.  You can see the fire.  He just wants to do whatever it is you're telling him.   
He trusts everybody around him.  He trusts the coaches.  I think it's going to take him a long way.  He's going to get better and better.  He has a chance to be one of the best safeties in the country, so I'm ready to see that.   
 Q.  What was it like seeing Tyler Morris get the start, considering what he's been through?  
TREY LOMAX: He's been my roommate for the last three years.  We had a house the last two years with a few of us, and me and him are roommates now in an apartment.  I remember going through the walk-through and he was out there with the ones.  I was talking to him, and I was like are you starting this week?   
He was like, yeah.  You could tell he was a little nervous, especially being senior night.  I didn't know his parents were here and his sister was here.   
I know it was special for him.  I was happy for him.  We talked to Calvin before the game, because all of us were pretty close over the years.  Really happy for him.  He played well tonight, and yeah, that was really fun to see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT