SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2017
Mikah Holder
Kameron Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 17, San Diego State - 20
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Mikah, you see Alijah lined up across from you, he tackles you.  What was that like?
MIKAH HOLDER: It was pretty exciting.  I thought the ball was going to come my way.  Alijah is really good at press, watching film.  I took it upon myself to get off the line from him.  I got a clean release, caught the ball.  Once I got up, it was a great feel to know I got one catch against my brother.  I'm going to hang it over his head for the rest of my life.
Q. How confident was Christian Chapman's passes to you?  Do you feel you were able to catch the ball better today?
MIKAH HOLDER: You saying the accuracy of his passing?  Christian was very accurate today.  He's a really good quarterback.  He's progressed in these last few years.  He's just doing what he does.
Q. Your brother came after you, swiped the ball out of your hand.
MIKAH HOLDER: I wouldn't say that.  It was me.  I made a bad play.  Ball went right through my hands.  Got to give it to him, he had good cover sometimes.
Q. Mikah, to win and have the game you had, what's that like?
MIKAH HOLDER: It's big.  Knowing just 'cause I had so many family coming.  It was a lot of pressure, but it's something I wanted to embrace because the magnitude of this game was just crazy.
Being a twin, he's like my soulmate, just growing up together, just being like 13 years in the same bed, 18 years in the same room.  We got a bond that you just can't break.
I love the guy.
Q. Can you talk about how happy you are (indiscernible)?
MIKAH HOLDER: You say is he hurting?
Q. Yes.
MIKAH HOLDER: It's a tough loss for them because it was a battle.  It was a good team.  We're both good teams.  It's got to sting for them.
But they'll bounce back.  They're a good team.
Q. Saw you guys share some words out there at different points during the game.  What did you say to each other?
MIKAH HOLDER: Me and Alijah, we're not smack talkers.  It's all love.  I was like, Watching some plays, man, you better keep your head up on that tackle, you're going to hurt yourself.  I'm trying to see you after the game.
Q. Talk about how well you played.
KAMERON KELLY: Coach Long put me in a good position with all the plays he called.  Those two corner blitzes, only two times he ran them, and they came up both times.  First time he didn't see me, second time the runningback saw me, I made an inside move.  Got to give it to Coach Long and the rest of the guys.
Q. When the throw came your way at the end, was it slow motion?
KAMERON KELLY: It was for sure slow motion.  I think I told myself three sentences while the ball was in the air.  You can't drop this, it's on you.  If you drop it if, y'all are going to lose.  Something like that.  Then as soon as it hit my hands, bobbled a little bit.  I had to just, like, grab on for dear life, yeah.
Q. How good did that feel to make that play?
KAMERON KELLY: It felt amazing.  I give God all the glory.  Put me in a great position.  I honestly didn't think we were going to even come my way on that last play or even on the last drive.  As soon as I seen the quarterback look at me, drop his shoulders, I was like, Here it comes.
Q. Kam, why should the rest of the country not be surprised about what just happened?
KAMERON KELLY: I mean, we've been doing this for three years, going on three years now.  As much as we say the rest of the country probably shouldn't be surprised, they're always going to be surprised because we're just little old San Diego State.
We take that to heart, though.  We take it to heart that people most of the when we play big games, the only people that believe we're going to win are the ones in the locker room.  We take that to heart, go out there on the field, give it our all.
Q. Rocky kept saying this wasn't the biggest game of the year, Air Force was.  In reality, was this the biggest game of the year?
KAMERON KELLY: I mean, our biggest goal is to win the conference championship.  If we would have lost this game, we still could win the conference championship.  Technically Air Force is the biggest game.  This does a lot for the program and our confidence as well.
Q. Is that the biggest win of the year?
KAMERON KELLY: So far (smiling).  So far until the conference championship, so...
Q. Was there more pressure on you, the corners in general?
KAMERON KELLY: A little bit.  We knew that we were going to have to go out there and lock down.  Bryce Love, 13 for 184.  He's a great runningback.  We knew if we could get as many people in the box as possible without letting them get deep shots down the field, we would be able to win.
Q. How big was the play when you tackled and forced them to kick a field goal?
KAMERON KELLY: That was real big.  We work on that every day in practice.  We work on running the ball.  Coach White stays on me, Coach Long stays on me.  They want me to take angles on the ball, even when it's not coming to me in practice every single play.  Coach White always tells me, You're going to make a big tackle to save the game if you work on running the ball.
I just ran over there.  I didn't even know it was going to pop.  When it did, Here it goes.
Q. Mikah, several times in the last couple years, Christian has led miraculous drives at the end of the game.  What is it about him that you see he's able to eliminate nerves?
MIKAH HOLDER: Christian is a big-time player.  In big games, he steps up.  The first time we played Wyoming, it didn't work out for us.  The second time, he did the same thing.
Just a great athlete, a great quarterback.  Just leads us to wins and the championship again.
Q. Did the coaches you tell you anything during the blackout?
MIKAH HOLDER: We are all in the zone.  It threw us off a little.  Our captain, Antonio, came in, brought the whole offense together, got all our minds focused again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT