AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 11, 2019
Masahiro Tanaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When did you find out you're starting Game 1 and what are the challenges of this Astros lineup?
MASAHIRO TANAKA: The team told me that I'm pitching Game 1 before we left New York.
As far as facing the Houston lineup obviously it's going to be a challenge. But you try not to do anything sort of different going into the game. You prepare for it. You make your plans and basically you go out there and execute.
Q. This is going to be a very loud environment to play in. The Astros get a lot of energy from playing here. What's the best strength for a visiting player to be able to handle this atmosphere? Is it experience? Is it focus? What do you think is the best thing to deal in such a charged atmosphere?
MASAHIRO TANAKA: One thing I can say is that we've been here in 2017. We know what it's like in here. So I think that experience will definitely help going into the game.
The other part is just really going into the game with good focus and concentration and really pitch your game, just execute your pitches and don't try to go out from yourself, rather just really go in there and pitch your game.
Q. You say you've been here in 2017 and you've learned the environment. What do you believe is the biggest difference and hence the biggest challenge that you guys have to overcome between the Houston Astros of 2017 and the Houston Astros you will face tomorrow?
MASAHIRO TANAKA: Obviously you just need to be better than the opponent. I think it comes down to the individuals being able to execute and really go on in that field and be able to do their job. I think that would be key.
Q. What stood out to you when you watched your team's defense in the last series?
MASAHIRO TANAKA: Obviously I think there were some really solid plays in the defensive end. I think especially looking back at our last game in Minnesota, we made some really good plays. I think being able to do that helps not give the momentum away.
So that said, I think that helped us, good defense helped us win the series.
Q. You arrived earlier at the ballpark today than your teammates. What kind of work did you want to get in?
MASAHIRO TANAKA: I just wanted to get my regular work in before going into -- the work that I put in the day before going into a game. And obviously I had to come and do this press conference, so that's why I came in early.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT