AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES VS RED SOX
October 6, 2018
Masahiro Tanaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Yankees - 6  Red Sox - 2   
(through interpreter)   
 Q.  Masahiro, you said yesterday you thought your previous postseason success could help you in this game.  Did you find that it did help you?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: Yeah, I do think it helped me.  I think the experience in the playoffs last year, I think it actually helped me during the regular season as well.  But, yeah, you kind of look back at that time and see what you did, and go about today's game.  So I think it did help me.   
 Q.  Masahiro, was the split better tonight than it had been in the past couple of starts?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: I think it was way more consistent compared to the last two games.   
 Q.  Masahiro, what did you enjoy more tonight, the Sanchez home run that gave you a 2-0 lead or his ability behind the plate helping you tonight?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: You know, I think he did a great job on both sides, offensively and defensively.  You know, you really need to be on the same page as far as the defense is concerned.  And I think we were able to do that for the most part.  You know, you do meetings and stuff and you go into the game, and you make adjustments, if that's necessary.   
I feel like we did a good job tonight.   
 Q.  Masahiro, what was the key to getting your splitter back to that level of consistency?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: You know, I say this all the time, but it really comes down to the mechanics.  I feel like I was able to get the sound mechanics back to be able to get that effective splitter back.   
 Q.  With which part of the mechanics?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: You know, to try to explain that I think is hard.  But when you lift your left leg and then by the time you plant that down, that whole motion you know you want to have sound mechanics, and I feel like I was able to get that part right tonight.   
 Q.  There was so much pressure on you in New York, but also back home.  I just spoke with Hiroshi Tanahasi.  He's a celebrity.  So many people are living and dying with each pitch you throw with the Yankees.  Does that add an extra burden on you?  Is that something you relish or is it more of a burden?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: The wrestler?  I definitely don't think it's a burden for me.  I take that pressure as a positive, I think.  You know, as a player you can't ask for more for being able to play in such a game like this.   
So I think it definitely is not a burden for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT