AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 17, 2017
Masahiro Tanaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This will be your second straight start in the playoffs throwing on four days rest.  How much more comfortable are you pitching on four days rest?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: Yeah, I feel comfortable pitching with four days rest.  Obviously I've done that through the season.  And on top of that, I've been here for four years and done that, as well.  So, yes, I do feel comfortable.   
 Q.  What has been the toughest adjustment from your time in Japan over these four years pitching on shorter rest like that?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: I don't have -- I feel like it's not something that I should be explaining into detail at this point in time.  But I've been here for some time and I'm not even conscious about that anymore.   
 Q.  How was your leg after being hit the other day?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: It's getting better every day.  I don't think there will be any problem me pitching out there on the mound.   
 Q.  Are you getting any treatment still?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: Yes, I am getting treatment every day.   
 Q.  You pitched in some really big games back in Japan, going back to when you were in high school.  How do you feel that's helped you handle the pressures of the MLB postseason?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: Yeah, I think you've gone through that in Japan, as well.  And obviously I am the pitcher that I am because of all the experience that I had in Japan.  But I think the biggest thing is that I was able to experience the 2015 Wild Card game.  I think having that experience under my belt has helped me pitch the way I'm pitching right now.   
And on top of that, I think just observing what's going on out there, the playoff games, I think you try to learn from that, as well.   
 Q.  Pitching to Romine today.  How did that come about?  And what do you think about that compared to Gary?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: I'm starting tomorrow.  Sonny is tagging up with...   
 Q.  There seems to be a really good chemistry and camaraderie in that clubhouse.  For you how much fun has it been being a part of this team this season?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: It's been great in the clubhouse.  It's a great environment.  You've gone through the season with those guys in the clubhouse, and you make it to this point and you win these games and you're able to feel the joy and the happiness with those guys.  So to me it's very special.   
 Q.  The games you pitched in high school, how did you handle that pressure back then and what have you learned since?  What's changed in your approach to these big games?  
MASAHIRO TANAKA: It's hard to comment because it's been such a long time ago.  It's been over ten years since I pitched in Koshien.   
But I guess what I can just tell you is that experience, like I said earlier, has helped me, I guess, become the pitcher that I am today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT