SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 11, 2020
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Martin, third time is a charm I guess.  Great putt.  Take us through what's going on in your mind as you stand over there with you a chance to win your fourth PGA TOUR event.
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you know, it's been a while, so I've been working hard.  Seven years since my last one.  Probably feel like now my game is really as good as it has been.  Been playing well the last few weeks; just haven't had the results.
But I love it here.  I got to say they were nice enough -- I needed a sponsor's exemption to get into this week, so big thank you to Shriners for giving me that spot.
But, yeah, obviously it's -- I'm going to really enjoy this one.
Q. With this win and all the perks that come with it, how does this change your goals for the remainder of the season?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, I haven't had time to even think about it.  You know, yeah, I mean, as you can tell it's emotional and I can't wait to go back and see my kids and my wife and celebrate with them.
Q. Congratulations.  What an incredible day this was for you.  I was going to ask you if you won it at 18 what was better, the hole-out at 9 or the par save here at 17, but you need to a playoff.  How does it feel to win again on the TOUR?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Oh, it's amazing.  You know, I love this place.  I've played well here.  Always enjoy coming back here.  I been working hard.  Since my last win my game -- I've struggled with my game at times.
You know, not getting any younger out here with all these kids, so I've really been working hard and wanted to see what I can still do.  I'm really proud how I played this week.
Q. Fourth win on the TOUR.  How is this different?  You had the knee surgery.  Didn't play for long time.  Played on the Korn Ferry Tour to start the fall series, and here you are on a sponsor's exemption with a win.
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you know, I was looking forward to coming back after the break and had to have knee surgery and was back on the sofa for a while.
Since then, been working really hard.  Like I said, I feel like my game has been good the last two, three weeks.  Just haven't been getting the results that I wanted.  Didn't make the putts.
That's the one thing that's been holding me back is my putting.  To make that huge par putt I did here on 17 in regulation, and then really nearly make two in a row on 18 and then make that, it's really nice that the putter kind of saved me coming down the stretch and won it for me.
Q. Finally, describe that bunker shot at 9.  That thing is buried up against the lip.  I'm thinking if you make a par that's a good score there.  You make eagle.  It's going to be the shot of the tournament, other than the putt to win it.  Take us through that.
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, that second shot, I mean, flies another foot it's an unbelievable 3-wood.  It was one of those things.  It was a really bad break but it was almost lying so badly that I said to my buddy, I said, this is lying so badly if I hit this as hard as I want it's not going to go very far.
It might actually just pop out and trickle down next the hole.  I hit it as hard as I could, closed my eyes because there was there sand everywhere.  When I turned around and the sand all cleared, I saw it landed on the green and start trickling.  I was like, oh, my gosh we made it.  That was obviously a shot always remember.  That was pretty special.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT