JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 24, 2010
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What do you have to say about that finish? 
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you know, you can't ever prepare for a hole-in-one, but he hit a great shot. You know, like I said to him when he made it, that putt on 17 should have gone in the first time around, so it was kind of maybe deserved because I don't know how that putt stayed out to be honest. 
 But yeah, all three of us, Cameron had a great up-and-down and then holed another great putt in the playoff and Jonathan holed a good putt on 18 there to get up-and-down out of the hazard there, so no one was giving it away. It was going to take -- I knew it was going to take a birdie. That's why coming up 18 I was firing right at the flag every time. Probably in stroke play I wouldn't have gone at it, but it was a match play situation. And same on 17. 
 It was going to take something special to win it the way we were all playing, and it certainly did. 

 Q. You had two great opportunities to close it out and you just couldn't get those putts to drop. It never moved on you. How frustrating was that to you?
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, all day I shot 1-over on the front nine and only missed one green. I hit it good enough on the front nine to shoot a few under par and just hit good putts and just nothing went in. It was pretty much the story all day. 
 Yeah, you know, it was kind of -- the putts I had in regulation on 17 and 18 were the exact same line almost that I had in the playoff on 17 and 18, and the one on 18 I learned on and I thought I made it, played more break, and then the one on 17 I just couldn't trust it. I thought I played less break, but it still didn't move. I hit good putts on every hole, and they really just didn't go in.

 Q. Were you surprised to even be in this situation today? 
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you know, it was a little frustrating that it would have only taken 3- or 4-under to win. I was thinking it was probably 5- or 6-under, but it is Sunday, and everything gets a little harder on Sunday, pin positions, and the nerves get a little more. You know, there was a breeze. This is the first day we had a little breeze, and it made a couple of those tee shots a little harder. 18 was a little harder with the wind up the left. 
 Yeah, and 16 is kind of the one that killed me, standing in the middle of the fairway, and I hit a 4-iron. Turns out I should have hit a 5-iron. Making par from there was probably -- that and the putt on 17 was probably the one that could have kept me playing on a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT