JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 20, 2010
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just your thoughts going into the week, and you know, some good vibes around here, obviously.
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah. You know, it's a little different circumstance for me coming back as defending champion, and not having to play for my card like I have the last two years coming here. 
 So that makes it even nicer, just kind of come in here and relax, and I'm excited to play this week. And hopefully I can be out there again on Sunday, and who knows end that streak of first-time winners.

 Q. Obviously conditions today a little different. How do you see that affecting the scores out there?
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah. We were talking about that yesterday. One of the things the greens are obviously softer. It's going to make it a little easier, but also the course is playing a lot longer. You know, some of the par-5s -- normally the fairways are really firm and soft here. Some of the par-5s that you can easily get to, I guess yesterday guys were saying they were hitting woods into nine where I remember hitting into nine we were hitting 7 and 6 irons in there last year. So it's going to be a lot different. 
 So I think it might off set a little with how much longer the course is playing, but you never know, if there's no wind, with soft greens, scores always are low.

 Q. And lastly, you talked a little bit now you don't have to worry about keeping your card for next year. Talk a little bit about that Fall Series. These guys are playing for their jobs next year. Talk a little about that competition. 
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah. It's kind of weird for me because I come here and I can relax and as I said, maybe not grinding and practicing as much as I would, but you see all these other guys are grinding, and I was thinking that yesterday watching them thinking that was me last year. These last events are the most important events of the year for these guys trying to keep their cards and keep their jobs. So you gotta remember how important it is for them even though a lot of guys are kind of in a wind-down period and just having fun here. There's a lot of guys that are taking it very seriously. It's tough. It's the most uncomfortable situation you can be in, especially going in those last couple weeks knowing you have to have a couple of real good finishes to keep your job is a situation you don't want to be in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT