ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2010
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Solid today?  
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, very good. Only five I had all day was on 17 and that's playing really tough right now. Obviously played very well, putted well, which is what you need to do when it's playing hard like it is. It's a totally different golf course than you normally have with the wind off the sea, but obviously very happy.  
 I've not hit one practice putt or practise ball all week, and sometimes when you just kind of relax and don't expect much, you have good weeks and that's kind of what it has been this week, just having fun at home, seeing the family, and enjoying and playing good golf courses. Staying with my parents in Kirkcaldy.   
 I wasn't very happy when I finished here on Friday. I think I was playing the Old Course a little too much respect at The Open, and then here, I was laying up too far back off of tees and stuff. I said to my caddie, I'm just going to hit driver every hole on Sunday and I think that's the way I'm going to play this golf course from now on. Even if I hit one or two bunkers, I'll make more birdies and pars from playing aggressive. That's kind of my style. I really struggle when you've got to kind of back off a little. That's when I don't really play very well. Going out today it worked out well.  
  
  Q. With the birdies around the loop there, did you think there was a possibility --  
 MARTIN LAIRD: I looked up and I saw No. 14, I figured if I made a couple more coming in and got it to 13, 14, I knew that the back nine is playing very tough right now. Even with two, three holes to go, I knew if I birdied one or two of the last three, anything can happen going down 17, really.   
 Even 18, I came up short -- you can come up short and make a bogey there pretty easily. I knew I had a chance and unfortunately just came up a little short.   
  
  Q. If you and Stephen Gallacher stay in the top 100 for the World Cup, is that something would you like to do?  
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, we had this chat at the PGA with all of the delays, we had breakfast one morning and we were talking about that that this year that it was a shame they decided to go every two years.   
 Obviously it would be very exciting to go play for Scotland. He's had a great year and playing good again this week and I've obviously been playing well this week. I think we could be a pretty formidable team if we were to play in that.  
  
  Q. Is that something you would be keen to do --  
 MARTIN LAIRD: I haven't seen the dates. I doubt there will be any major events on, so then it would definitely be something you would go and play.   
 Next week, probably won't practise, just go and have fun. Not going to play next week. Going to go home and rest up and go to Vegas, obviously love that golf course. It's a course that you have to be aggressive right from the first tee because it takes about 20-under to win and I like that. I'm going from there to Malaysia, so got two weeks left and then it's off-season time.   
  
  Q. You're close to the Top-50, is that the goal now by the end of the season?  
 MARTIN LAIRD: I wouldn't say it's a goal by the end of the season but it's a goal in the near future. Just try to get better and you know, my goal every year is to get a little better and if I do that, I'll eventually get where I want to be. I definitely proved to myself this week that I have got better, because probably a year or two ago, I couldn't have played this well in this wind and definitely can control any ball flight a little better now and that's something that's good going forward.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT