THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2010
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I'm sure you're proud of the way you played golf today?
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, I played well all week. It's a weird week. I'm not driving the ball very good. Hitting four or five loose ones a day. My scrambling and good key par putts to keep it going.

 Q. Something clicked in the last week and a half to be the lead reason why you're playing well?
 MARTIN LAIRD: I've been playing well for the last month. I played well going back to the first week of that. Played well at Firestone and played pretty good at the PGA; just a few bad swings cost me a lot of shots. I've got a lot of confidence going and I'll start to putt well. That's what's been holding me back, hitting the ball very well all year, not making putts. 
 I started to make some putts. It's amazing the kind of confidence comes from that.

 Q. How do you feel about having a lead, three-shot lead as it stands right now going into the final round?
 MARTIN LAIRD: Obviously that's where you want to be. I have to be honest, I knew I was leading it. I didn't know how big my lead was. I'm just going to go out tomorrow and play the same as I have. 
 I know what's at stake. I'm not going to pretend I don't. I'm playing well and I've got a lot of confidence. So hopefully I can keep it up.

 Q. Obviously at stake includes so many things. If you win, Masters, TOUR Championship, the chance to win the FedExCup. Without being dramatic, tomorrow's the biggest day in your professional career?
 MARTIN LAIRD: Oh, yeah, I know that. I mean, I think I'm prepared for it. Winning last year gave me a lot of confidence. I know I can do it. Hole a good putt on the last hole to get in the playoff and winning the playoff. Took a lot of confidence from that. My game's come around the last, as I said, the last four or five weeks. I feel if I go out tomorrow and keep doing what I'm doing I can definitely do it.

 Q. What did you find most challenging about the course?
 MARTIN LAIRD: You have to drive the ball great around here. The greens, it's totally different golf course than it was the last couple of days.
 The greens are, as I remember two years ago, nice and firm and fast, if you miss it now, it's tough to get up and down in some holes you've got to drive it well. If you do miss it you've got to miss it in the right spots.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT