SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2018
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Martin, what a nice 66 today; 11-under par.  You hit the ball beautifully, and the greens that you did miss you got up and down every time.  That's got to feel pretty good.  
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, felt like a nice kind of tidy, clean round today.  Putted well.  Putted really well yesterday and continued that today.   
You know, playing well, and obviously in a good position going into tomorrow.  Keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully keep rolling in the putts like I have been the last couple days and see what happens.   
 Q.  As a Scotsman, I'm sure you hear, Oh, you're used to playing in horrible weather like we had Thursday.  So much nicer today.  How much easier did the golf course play?  
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, only one person said that on Thursday in the rain, which was way under what it normally is.  Yeah, the fairways are dried out so if you do get in the fairways, you're getting some roll on some holes; spin a little shorter.   
The rough is almost playing a little harder now, because when bermuda is wet the ball doesn't really jump out of it so you can control your distance a little better.  Today it's drying out; you get some fliers, and saw a bunch of guys kind of going over greens.   
If you drive it straight it definitely plays a little shorter, and then you can be a little more aggressive with some shorter clubs.   
So I think forecast is nice tomorrow; should be more of the same.   
 Q.  Should be good.  Should be more like Orlando weather that you're used to.  Looking like you're in good position.  Another low one tomorrow.  Go get them.  
MARTIN LAIRD: Thank you.  Appreciate it.   
 Q.  Totally taking advantage of these conditions and how dry this golf course has gotten with a bogey-free 66; how did you put it together, Martin?  I know there was some good putting in there.  
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, I putted really nicely.  Kind of putted terrible Thursday and then putted really nicely yesterday and continued that today.   
Yeah, I had a couple 15-foot par putts today which always helps.  Bogey-free is always helps, so I was happy with that.   
 Q.  Bogey-free is always nice.  How about your fall schedule.  Take a look at the next couple weeks, and then of course the World Cup.  How do you treat this part of the season knowing FedExCup points are really where you want to grab 'em?  
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you know, the mentality of this time of year has changed over the last few years.  Now it's real important.  You want get off to a good start in the year, and when you have you little break over Christmas know you're in a good position.   
I've been working hard the last few weeks and getting ready to go these next three, four events.  Hopefully I can keep doing this, and when Christmas break comes around I'm in a nice spot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT