LEGENDS RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 9, 2009
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Looks like a runner-up finish tied for second. Best finish of your career. Just talk about the way you played today. I know there was a stretch in the middle that was awesome.
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, and I played good today, par from 7 and 8. Those two holes, for some reason I hate those holes. And I think last year I struggled on them, too, for some reason. I played them a bunch over par. 
 Even though I went bogey-bogey there, after I took care of the back nine, I think there's more birdies in the back and I thought I can shoot 5, 6, 7 under in the back if I keep hitting it the way I am. 
 There was a good stretch in the middle and I just missed a couple of short putts there, 16 and 17, just two pretty good birdie putts. It's nice to birdie the last. 

 Q. How big is that five-footer?
 MARTIN LAIRD: That's huge. The difference between tied third and tied sixth and a whole bunch of money and a whole bunch of FedExCup points. 
 And I knew realistically today I was trying to chase down John, but everyone kind of -- unless you blew up, it was going to be tough. And he's playing good. 
 So second was kind of the second goal if you couldn't chase him down. I was still trying to catch him until about five, six holes ago. I knew it would take something really special to catch him. That's when I was like let's try to get a second-place finish and see what happens.

 Q. Speaking of the FedExCup, you're not in the PGA next week, so you'll be going to Windham?
 MARTIN LAIRD: Windham.

 Q. Have you played there before? 
 MARTIN LAIRD: Played last year, finished 4th. Had the first-round lead last year and then made the cut in the number after 76, and I shot 63, 76, 64, 63. But I played -- I beat everyone on field for three rounds and had one bad round. 
 So I love that golf course and I love this golf course. Finished 4th here last year. So if I can go from 4th, 4th to 2nd, 2nd, I'll be happy.

 Q. That would be great, and you'll be in the FedExCup. 
 MARTIN LAIRD: Will be.

 Q. Thanks, man. 
 MARTIN LAIRD: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT