WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2017
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Getting one stroke better each and every day.  65 here on Saturday.  How pleased are you with the final outcome?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, really pleased.  I played really nicely all day really today, tee to green.  I putted really nicely again.  Yesterday was a little scrappy and putted well.  It felt good to be out there today.  I felt like I had control of my golf ball today, which is good.
Q. Similar position a couple years ago.  Chance to win here.  What have you learned from 2015 that maybe you can change the outcome here come Sunday?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you know, I came close in '15.  I'd say I'm definitely better at coping with the crowds and all the mayhem the last three holes.
Hopefully tomorrow, if I'm in the same position, I can handle it better than I did a few years ago.
Q. You talked about the home course advantage.  You practice here a couple of times a week when you're home.  How critical can that be for you with 18 holes to go?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, it's like I said earlier, I feel really comfortable on these greens.  They are kinda tricky if you don't play the Valley effect on them.  I have been putting really nicely all week.  Hopefully I can keep that going tomorrow.  I definitely feel comfortable on them.
Q. A great way to finish with a birdie on 18.  How good does that feel to give you momentum going into tomorrow?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, it's always nice to finish with birdie.  I had a great drive on 17 to the front edge and three-putted from, I don't know, 110 feet or something.  You know, I felt like maybe I let one get away there, but really nice to finish on 18 with a 3.
Q. With the local knowledge, how much is that an advantage, being just a few minutes down the road here?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, definitely.  Especially around the greens and on the greens.  I have also played this tournament, I don't know, nine years.  I kind of feel like I know what a lot of the putts do.
The pin positions are generally similar each year.  Definitely feel comfortable on this course.
Q. So comfortable here.  How good does it feel, knowing you have another chance at it tomorrow?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you know, for sure, any time you're in the mix, it's fun, especially when it's a home tournament.  I have friends that follow me that don't normally get to watch me play.
You know, I'm going to enjoy it tomorrow and soak up the atmosphere and see what happens.
Q. What was the shot into 18 like?  Pitching wedge?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, I had a great number, had 147 yards, slight breeze behind me.  It was a perfect little pitching wedge for me.  Hit it right where I wanted, just right of the hole and it was nice to see that putt disappear.
Q. You will be playing with Ben again today.  What was that like, and what do you expect that to be like tomorrow?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, it was great.  He played awesome today, too.  First time I have ever played with him, first time I have ever really met him.  Real nice guy.  We had a lot of fun today.  Hopefully we can both play well again tomorrow and have some more fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT