BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2016
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about that back nine.  Tell us about the difference in the morning and the afternoon?
MARTIN LAIRD: As I said my back nine, which was the front nine today, it got kind of gusty and the greens yesterday morning, you could almost fire right at the flag and the ball's gonna stop.
And I hit sand wedge into the last hole, and it released about nine yards.  Makes some of the front pins, like on 18, a lot tougher.
Then late in the day, poa annua, two putting is almost a guarantee.  I actually hit the ball better today than I did yesterday.  I putted really well yesterday.  And today I felt I played better but missed a bunch of opportunities even early in the round.  I'm still feeling good going into tomorrow.
Q. All of this good golf going on, how much is playing at Troon on your mind, and the playoffs and everything else?
MARTIN LAIRD: You know, playing at Troon, I'd love to obviously be there, but it's not really on my mind.  I just want to keep playing good golf.  And getting in the playoffs, obviously, is first and foremost.  I'm just outside right now.  If I keep doing this I'll hopefully get in and that's the most important.  And if I get a spot for Troon in a couple of weeks, that will be an extra bonus.
Q. Disappointing bogey to finish there.  Right into contention heading into the weekend, just two back?
MARTIN LAIRD: I hit the ball great all day today.  Just afternoon conditions got a lot tougher.  The wind gets pretty gusty.  You don't really know where it's going on some holes.  And obviously a little disappointing finish making -- I think I bogeyed three of my last six or seven holes.  But nice thing about this format, I made five birdies.  And birdies are better than bogeys in terms of points.  Even though I only shot a couple under, I still got seven points out of it.  Obviously pretty happy.
Q. Not just the wind, but the poa annua kind of comes up a little bit in the afternoon.  Is it tough to trust the lines out there sometimes?
MARTIN LAIRD: The green is in immaculate condition but it's just the nature of poa annua.  Yesterday morning the greens were immaculate.  If you hit a good putt, it was pretty much going in.
This afternoon I hit two or three putts from six to ten feet range, felt like I hit good putts, and they wiggle around and miss.  Same for everyone that plays in the afternoon.  It's just kind of the nature of these greens.  And hopefully I can have some wiggle in the next couple of days.
Q. Talk about what it would mean to get in the field at the British Open this week with that being on the line this week for one person?
MARTIN LAIRD: Obviously it would be great.  It's always nice for me to go back to Scotland.  And it the Open's my favorite golf tournament in the year.
To get there would be fantastic.  And I grew up in the West Coast of Glasgow.  Nice to go back.  But it's not really on my mind right now.  I'm just trying to play good golf and keep firing away at flags and hopefully make some birdies out here, see what happens.
Q. (Indiscernible) hit into the trap?
MARTIN LAIRD: Hit best driver all day down there, had a great second shot 3-iron that's an example of the difference of the afternoon and the start in the morning.  Landed that ball, I think, we said six yards on the green.  Went all the way over to the back of the green, up against kind of the thicker -- I was in the first cut, but my ball was an inch in front.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT