BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2016
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Off to a great start.  15 points.  Round one, just a few comments about the round?
MARTIN LAIRD: Obviously played well.  The conditions are really nice this morning.  The greens were perfect out there early.  And the breeze didn't pick up until the last few holes.  So it definitely was ideal scoring conditions.  So it was nice to take advantage of.
Q. How much of a factor does aggression come in, how aggressive with a format like this, do you tweak it much?
MARTIN LAIRD: No, not really.  I generally play pretty aggressive anyway.  The course plays pretty short because of the altitude.  You have a lot of wedges and 9-irons, sand wedges in your hand anyway.  You really should be going to the flags with those anyways.
Am I going to be in the middle of the fairway hitting a 4-iron right, a flag, probably not.  But you have a lot of short irons in here.  So the course kind of sets itself up to be aggressive.
There's a couple of holes where -- that one drivable hole, I don't hit driver there.  There's some holes you still have to play smart.  You can't just go out and put your foot down and go for everything.
Q. Given the altitude, do you have to give it a little bit extra practice before the tournament starts, or just take 10 percent off?
MARTIN LAIRD: We play 10, 15 percent.  I played college golf in Colorado.  So I played five years at 5,000 feet.  So I'm pretty comfortable with the yardages.
It's hard to like make yourself trust it sometimes; but as I say, because I did that for a few years, I'm kind of more used to it.
So I almost know how far I hit my clubs anyway without having to do the adjustments.  So that's a little easier for me.  But it's definitely a lot more work for the caddies this week, get all their adjustments, and not just altitude.  Every hole is up and down hills.  It's a tough week for numbers.  You've got to go with what you think it is and hit your shot.
Q. Lastly, how about walking?  Really takes its toll on you, I would imagine.
MARTIN LAIRD: Yes, it's probably the toughest walk we have.  But as I said, it's a nice -- it's a lovely golf course.  It's a nice walk.  It's nice walking when you have the views around here.
And when you're making birdies it doesn't seem quite as bad.  Our group played well today.  So all of us were walking up the hills not too badly today.
Q. A start like this is a confidence-builder.  How do you approach tomorrow?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah.  Approach tomorrow just the same.  I was confident coming into this week.  Played well today.  I played well last week, felt my game was in good shape.
It's nice to go out -- had a couple of rounds last week I felt I played really well, didn't score nearly as well as I could have.
And today is one of those days where I scored about as well as I could.  I made some putts and took care of some nice shots by making those putts.
But, yeah, tomorrow just the same.  Like I said, this golf course is kind of -- there's not really that many different ways to play it.  It's kind of in front of you.  It's not really a course where you can try and cut doglegs or anything like that and be aggressive.  It's kind of in front of you.  Just kind of do the same and hopefully make some putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT