FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2016
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This golf course over on the North, you had to drive the golf ball today, didn't you?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, we were talking about that.  Normally the North Course rough's a little easier than the South Course.  But not this year.  It's brutal.
I scrambled at the start of the round, didn't drive the ball that well and managed to hack stuff up on the green and make pars and then hit a few nice drives coming in and made some birdies.
Q. What's the deal this year with the greens?  Seems like they're firmer on the North and you have a little more control of those wedges.  Those wedges some years are really scary as much as they could spin.
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, the North is probably a little firmer in the greens than the South Course right now.  Like you said, normally from 120 you're chipping little 9-irons because you're scared of spinning the pitching wedge or sand wedge too much.  Not this year, you're trying to stop it.  Which is a different challenge and the course is playing a lot harder because of that.  Because some of the pins, like the pin on number 7, it's almost impossible to get to even with a lob wedge.  So it was a little harder than normal but I'm happy with my round.
Q. What do you like about the South Course, because we're going to play that on the weekend and you probably heard the forecast, 25 to 35 mile an hour winds and rain on Sunday.  Better get it tomorrow, right?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, the South Course is a tough golf course in any condition.  So if that happens on Sunday, it will be especially tough.  I love it, it's maybe my favorite course I play all year.  There's no hiding around there.  You got to do everything well, not just drive the ball well.  So hopefully I can keep that going this weekend and see what happens.
Q. You're a Scot and you don't mind playing in a wee breeze, but you kind of got American golf, you like to hit that ball up in the air and 35 miles mile an hour winds can be a lot on Sunday?
MARTIN LAIRD: I played a lot more golf in America than in Scotland.  I've been over here awhile, so my game is definitely Americanized.  If that's what it is, we'll adjust and do what we have to do and see what happens.
Q. 7-under through 36 holes here.  What's been working so well for you through 36?
MARTIN LAIRD: I've been hitting my irons nicely.  I've hit a lot of greens, which is important around here.  These greens are tough to get up-and-down if you're missing them.  Drove the ball really well today, not quite as good today, but a few nice drives coming and made a few birdies coming in.  So that was nice to finish the day.
Q. You said that this is one of your favorite courses you play all year on TOUR, and you finished in the top-10 last year.  What is it about the South Course that you love so much?
MARTIN LAIRD: First of all, the views are hard to beat anywhere.  If you can't be having fun out there looking around then I don't know where you can.
But I think it's all aspects of your game.  You have got to be sharp around here, you got to drive the ball well, and you have to do everything well.  I don't know, it just kind of sets up for my eye.  There's a lot of tee shots I like the look of.  Some weeks it's the opposite and this week it happens to be its case for me.
There's a lot of holes I stand up there and like the look of the tee shot and seem to drive the ball pretty well, so hopefully I can continue this weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT