WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2015
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Obviously those last two holes were pretty rough.  Just take us through your thoughts on, you know, looking back on those.  MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you know, I played really solid all day.  No bogeys.  You know, didn't make as many putts as yesterday, but I felt like I hit the ball better.  Standing on 17 and tied for the lead is kind of where you want to be. You know, 17 obviously I was 5-wood I had there and missed it right.  Then, you know, that putt always looked faster.  I thought it was faster.  I watched the guys I was playing with, balls break that way, and mine didn't move. And then 18 it was 5-wood again, and I guess it was overcompensation for the one I hit on 17.  You know, they hit driver, but for me it's a perfect 5-wood, 9-iron like I did the second time around.  Gives me as good a chance making birdie as hitting driver. That was my mindset.  Standing at the tee and thinking I was going to hit a nice 5-wood and 9-iron and make birdie.  Didn't go as planned.  Obviously leading, you know, after a couple of rounds through three rounds and then until -- I don't think I really gave up the lead apart from a hole or two until the 17th tee.  Obviously very proud, pleased with the way I played, pleased with that.  It's obviously going to be a hard one to take the way the last two holes went.   Q.  Do you think 18 was more of shock from what happened on 17?  MARTIN LAIRD: No.  I mean, as I said, you know, I was still in the moment on 18.  I knew I could birdie the last and force a playoff. But, no, I wasn't standing on 18 thinking about 17.  17 was gone.  I was focusing on trying, hard to draw a 5-wood, and unfortunately it didn't pay off.   Q.  Looking forward, obviously you got some positives to take out of this week.  MARTIN LAIRD: A lot of positives.  I feel my game is obviously back where it was a few years ago, and I feel like I come to tournaments to try to win now.  Yeah, you know, I mean, looking back on this week, I really -- I drove it terrible for two of the four days and putted -- I mean, it wasn't like I felt like -- I was leading the golf tournament not feeling like I was playing my best golf. So a positive, that's it.  Next week, San Diego, Torrey Pines is one of my favorite courses if not my favorite course to play all year.  So, you know, I'll think of this tonight and tomorrow for sure, but come next Thursday I will be ready to go.  Hey, you know, it's hard to take and finish like that, but, you know, you've got to take positives out of it and look at somebody like Billy Horschel last year, everybody was kind of on him about what he did the one tournament, and he came back and won the next two events.  I don't see why I can't go next week and get in contention and hopefully get a win.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT