WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2015
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Welcome Martin Laird to the media center.  Four birdies in five holes in the back 9 gives you a two-shot lead at this point.  Tell us what's working for you out there so far.   MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you know, no coincidence that four birdies in five holes came on the back when the rain stopped and got a little easier out there.  That front 9 was brutal.  We were hitting drivers 250 yards and having 5-irons into holes we are normally hitting wedges and sand wedges into. I played really, really well today obviously.  I think the big thing was I drove it well.  I missed a couple of fairways towards the end of the round, but generally on those holes, I mean, doesn't matter who is in the field.  You have to hit a fairway if you want to get there in two.  I did today, and that was probably the thing that gave me the chance the most was I drove it most in the fairway.   Q.  Are you comfortable in these kind of conditions?  MARTIN LAIRD: You know, it's always a joke how many times when it rains I get the little phrase, "just like home, "or, you know, but I have lived over here for 14 years now.  So, I mean, I remember playing in these conditions, but I really haven't played in them much, not really all of my professional career.  So, you know, I wouldn't say it's a huge advantage for me anymore, but, you know, I just knew -- conditions like that, you have to put your head down and fight away and try and make pars. This is normally a golf course you're making birdies.  You're just trying to make pars and maybe sneak a couple of birdies.  I would say I have definitely gone soft from when I first came over here.   Q.  How many days have you played like this, in this kind of weather, in Arizona?  MARTIN LAIRD: In Arizona?  You know, the weather is so good here, but I actually I don't play golf in Arizona.  I really don't remember a day where it's just been that kind of drizzle.  It was a very Scottish day today with the kind of misty drizzle all day.  It would go off and then rain heavy and drizzle for a few holes. I don't think I have ever played here when it's like that.  We get rain, but it's not sort of an all-day thing.   Q.  Talk about that stretch of 4 through 5.  You had a good look at 14, which is a difficult hole.  MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, I missed the fairway, but I missed it on the right side there.  That was one of the hardest holes if not the hardest hole on the course now.  I missed on the left rough. I had a decent enough lie.  I had a 7-iron.  I think I had 178 yards or something to the pin.  Came out right at it.  Had a good look there and just misread it a little bit. Yeah, I had a nice stretch, two of the par-5s, one hit in to tap-in range.  Other one made a nice putt.  And 16 was probably the best shot all day in terms of it's a tough pin, but it was a perfect number for an 8-iron.  I wasn't going to kind of back off in the middle of the green.  The weather got better and you could start firing.  I hit a great shot in there five, six feet and made that.   Q.  When did the rain stop?  MARTIN LAIRD: Maybe the par-5 13.  Maybe about then.   Q.  You hadn't had a bogey until the final hole.  Does it matter to you that you finished that way, or were you just glad to get the round done?  MARTIN LAIRD: No, I mean, obviously you never want to make a bogey.  In other words, I had a poor tee shot.  Someone had been a little overserved and shouted at my back swing and I kind of blocked it right.  Popped up a 3-wood because of that. From there, I still -- you know, I still got front of the green in two and really should have got that one up and down.  Obviously disappointed.  That was a goal today was try to go out there and play as tightly a round as possible.  I didn't think no bogeys, but it's one fact that I held off for 17 holes.  I'm very pleased with it.  And obviously a little disappointed, but I'm not complaining.  5-under is a hell of a lot better today than 5-under was yesterday.   Q.  What was said during your back swing?  Was it the typical mashed potatoes, or...  MARTIN LAIRD: No.  Someone just shouted.  I don't think they -- they just shouted something.  I don't know.   Q.  How important is it to finish tonight rather than come back tomorrow?  MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah.  That's very nice.  I mean, you know, it was still okay on the last -- I don't mind hitting the shots.  It's the putting.  When I got to 18 we could still read the putt.  It wasn't because of dark I missed it.  I had a great putt.  I just kind of bumped the edge. Yeah, it's nice to have a little lie-in or as much of a lie-in as you will get tomorrow.  I didn't want to be out here early and play the last hole.  That's for sure.   Q.  Where do you play most of your golf here in Phoenix?  MARTIN LAIRD: I'm a member at Estancia, just up the road.  I practice out here quite a bit, too.  If I'm going to hit balls, I will come out here and go to the back of the range and get some work done. It's a great spot to come practice and I live five minutes away.  If I'm going to play, that's where I play at.   Q.  Is it true that Bubba holds all the records at Estancia?  MARTIN LAIRD: I believe he does hold all the course records.  I have never played from the senior tees like he does.  I don't hold that one (laughter).  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT