FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2014
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on conditions out there, trying to catch a guy with a four‑shot lead. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   It was playing harder today.   We finally had some firm greens.   You missed the fairway and it was hard to hold some of the greens never mind get it close coming out of the rough.   Rough dried out, a couple flier lies.   It was definitely playing harder.   Greens got a little faster, typical kind of browned up poa annua.   But it was still there.   This is about as disappointing as I've been coming around in a while, three three‑putts and 4‑iron and 5‑wood into two par‑5s on the last three holes and make par on those two.   I really felt like I had a chance to catch him today, and as I said, even with three holes to go.   I'm going to take a couple days to get over this one, I think.

Q.   What can you take out of this week? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   I mean, there's obviously confidence taken.   I said that to my caddie.   I played poorly yesterday, and really didn't feel like I played great today.   As I said, I had three three‑putts today and two yesterday, and I'm in third, one shot out of second, so you can only take confidence from that.   I really liked this golf course.   I felt like it sat well for me this week.   Some weeks you feel really good about finishing third and some weeks you kind of are frustrated thinking that you could have done better, and it was one of those weeks for me.

Q.   You're going to Vegas, a place you've won.   What is it about that course that sets up well for you? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   You know, I just like it.   I like to play aggressive and you've got to play aggressive there because it takes 18, 19, 20‑under to win.   If you drive it good, you can really get the par‑5s there.   It generally suits someone that can hit it far and high and fly all of the bunkers, so hopefully I can keep playing like this next week and tidy up a few of the putts and a few loose drives I hit this week, and hopefully I'll have a good week next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT