FRYS.COM OPEN
October 10, 2014
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Martin, stuck on 67s.   I see that smile right off the bat.   Well done. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah.   You never know how you're going to play after seven weeks off like I had, just to come out and put back‑to‑back 67s up, and played very solid, very solid 67s.   I'm extremely happy.

Q.   That's the thing.   A lot of the guys didn't have much time off, and you did, and you're probably happy that you did, because it wasn't the year you really wanted to have, I don't think this last year, and come out here fresh, a little better?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you know, I played well the last few events of last season.   I started to get my game back, and was a little disappointed to be playing well and not be playing the FedExCup, but I looked at the other side.   You know, my game was back.   I was excited for the new season.
I took a few weeks off and then practiced hard the last month to make sure all that good work I put in before didn't go away over seven weeks, so you never know until you get out here, and obviously very happy to back up my good round yesterday with one just as good today.

Q.   Not a bad time to have off with the new addition, too.   You get to be a little family and have some fun. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, exactly.   Our boy is now seven and a half months, so it was fun the last couple months being at home every day and seeing him in the mornings, unlike you do out here.   So yeah, it was a nice couple of weeks off, or a few weeks off, but I'm excited to be back on the road, and I'm getting some tournaments, because I feel like my game is back and hopefully I can keep it up.

Q.   First man to double digits.   Keep it going, buddy. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Thank you. 

Q.   Back‑to‑back rounds of 67 here at Silverado.   How rewarding is it to put up another good one after a late one on Thursday afternoon?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah.   Very rewarding.   I played nicely yesterday.   So it was nice to come out this morning.   It was a lot different this morning.   The course played different.   There was no wind.   We had a little breeze yesterday, no wind this morning, but it was playing a lot longer in the cool temperatures, so it was nice to get out, and I putted really well today, so I was obviously happy about that.

Q.   What are the adjustments you make when you have a golf course playing differently, and 16 hours earlier you saw something completely different?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, I mean the first hole yesterday I hit sand wedge in.   Today I hit 8‑iron, so that's a pretty big difference for the same hole.   You know, the greens are a little softer, but some of the holes are playing a little longer.   So just took maybe a couple more coming into some of the holes, so maybe can't be quite as aggressive.   But as I said, I feel those holes I played smart, middle of the green and made some nice 20, 25‑footers today, so it's always nice to see them go in.

Q.   We talked about momentum through your final two events of last season at Reno and Wyndham, and you felt like it was a continuation.   How does this now continue to support that belief?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah.   You know, I feel comfortable again on the golf course.   You know, last year I never really felt that comfortable.   I would get a couple of bad shots and my confidence would go and frustration would come in.   I'm just enjoying playing golf again.   Last year was a grind.   It wasn't much fun many weeks, so it's awfully refreshing to be out there and enjoying it and looking forward to the last two rounds instead of worrying what may be coming.

Q.   How much does fatherhood help you maybe have a grasp on how important it is out here?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, definitely.   It makes it all‑‑ putts it all into reality, and it's nice when you get up in the morning and your little boy is there or you come back after practice and you're tired and he's there smiling at you.   It definitely makes it a lot easier to be out here, and makes golf not seem quite as important, and maybe that's one of the reasons I'm a little more chilled out on the golf course and that can only be good for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT