FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2014
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bogey‑free 67 on this Thursday.   How pleased are you with this start, first round, first tournament of this new season?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you know, great way to start the new season.   I played a practice round on Tuesday and liked the golf course when I played it, so I was looking forward to getting going.   Very happy any time you're bogey free, it feels nice, especially the first round of the season.

Q.   A lot of time off since you were last out on the PGA TOUR last playing at Wyndham.   What did you work on in a year that was maybe up‑and‑down for you, maybe not what you had expected?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you know, my last two starts before the Playoffs, I played well in Reno and at the Wyndham, so even though I had seven weeks off, I was looking forward to getting back.   I took a few weeks off, didn't touch the clubs at all, just enjoyed some family time, and then just really worked hard the last month getting ready.   I didn't want to come out and kind of let that good play that I had to finish last season go away over the seven weeks off, so I really practiced hard the last month.   It was nice to go out today and have it pay off, and I'm looking forward to the start of this new season.

Q.   How does this one round sort of build from that confidence you had late this past season and hopefully continue forward? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you know, I've been playing well at home, but that's at home.   It's a lot different when you get out here, so it's nice to know that, as I said, I was playing well at Wyndham and a couple weeks before that, so it's nice to know that with an extended break, as I had, I watched a lot of golf, I don't normally watch golf.   When you get seven weeks off, I watched a lot, and it kind of made me hungry to get out this year and get off to a good start and make sure I'm not sitting around watching golf come the FedExCup next year. 

Q.   I looked at your scorecard and I saw a lot of pars and five birdies. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you know, I played nice today.   Any time you're bogey free, you're happy, especially the first tournament of the year, so to speak.   I've had a good few weeks off, so it was nice to show I wasn't too rusty and come out‑‑ I played very solid.   It wasn't an even par where I was scrambling for pars.   I think I only missed a couple of greens all day, and I obviously chipped one of them in and got another one up‑and‑down.   It was a very nice and solid way to go, to go out and play my first round of the new season.

Q.   What were the keys to your round?   I heard some of the guys saying that the rough was up a little bit and really undulating greens.   Is it just keep the ball in the fairway here?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, I drove the ball pretty well, and the couple I did miss, I got lucky.   I had a chance to at least get it on the green.   I would say it's definitely drive it in the fairway around here.   There's some big old trees around here that can block your view pretty easily, and the greens are severe.   You've got to kind of pick your spots.   A couple holes today I was in the middle of the fairway with 9‑iron, wasn't even really going at the flag, just trying to get it in a good spot and give myself two putts because there's plenty of birdie holes.   Some of these greens are pretty severe, you've just got to make sure you don't get on the wrong side of the hole on those ones and try and play the rest of the golf course as aggressive as you can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT