WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Martin, a wild second 9 holes on this golf course but right where you want to be going into the weekend.
MARTIN LAIRD:   It was a little up and down today.   Lot of birdies which is a good sign but just a couple too many bogies.   Yeah, right where I want to be.   So I feel like I'm playing well and, you know, excited for this weekend.

Q.   I thought there was a point in the round you bogeyed 18 and then you had that long putt at 2, you end up 3-putting.   You came back with back to back birdies.   That maybe set the stage for you.
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah.   You know, I three-putted 2 as you said and kind of got me going a little and then I birdied the next three which is always a nice response. 
I said yesterday I'm playing great.   I'm hitting it good.   I'm just excited to get it on.   I feel like I can make a lot of birdies.   If I can just tidy up a couple of holes that I three-putted today and maybe I'll get a little better tomorrow but very happy.

Q.   136 in the standings when the week started.   I don't know if you checked but it's 116 but still we said this yesterday, we'll say it again, you're moving up.
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah.   Still a long ways to go but I'm in position.   I'm trying to win the golf tournament now.   If I do that I don't have to worry about FedExCup standings.   I'm looking forward to this weekend.   It's fun to be playing good again and back in the mix.

Q.   We're here with Martin Laird.   The good news for Martin, had 7 birdies.   Not too great, you bogeyed, still 4-under, 66 today.
MARTIN LAIRD:   I just had 7 birdies, that was good especially out here in the afternoon.   It's a little tougher than the morning.   But, yeah, hopefully I can tidy up.   Two of those bogies were 3-putts so they're a little disappointing but apart from that I'm playing great and looking forward to this weekend.

Q.   You entered this event outside the Top 125.   Right now if the tournament ended today you would make your way to The Barclays. 
How do you approach the rest of this tournament now that you've gotten off to this good start?
MARTIN LAIRD:   I'm one back of the lead with two rounds to go.   I'm trying to win the golf tournament.   The FedExCup is obviously important to get into but right now I'm -- the important thing is trying to win out here.   I'm in a great spot to do it.   Hopefully keep playing the way I have been and see what happens on Sunday. 
If I get in next week, that's an added bonus but I want to have a shot at winning this tournament come Sunday.

Q.   That's the main focus is winning the tournament, not necessarily where you are in The Playoffs.
MARTIN LAIRD:   When you're one back halfway you got to focus on trying to get to that No. 1 spot, not thinking about where you got to finish to get in next week.   I know roughly I have to Top-10 this week but right now I'm well inside that and, as I said, hopefully come Sunday I don't have to worry about sneaking in. 

Q.   You're excited about the week?
MARTIN LAIRD:   I'm excited to be playing good golf.   This year has not been much fun on the golf course.   Every day I've come home from the golf course I'm in a bad mood and frustrated.   I forget how much fun golf can be when you go for a spell like that for 6, 7 months where you're playing bad.   I know it's fun to be out there and feel like I can go for shots that we talk about the shot and feel like I can pull it off.   It's been a long time that I really felt like that.   As I said it's fun to play golf again.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT