WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   We'd like to welcome Martin Laird.   Martin, you got it to 5-under today, right now it's a share of the lead in the morning wave.   
Kind of tell us about the course and what was going good for you out there this morning and we'll have some questions.  
MARTIN LAIRD:   The course is fantastic.   I've not been here in four, five years.   It's the first year I've been here since they changed the greens to bermuda.   They're perfect, especially in the morning.  
Get up to the hole, down-grain, downhill putt, they're as fast as you can handle, which is fun and you know this course needs that with the way the greens are designed, that's kind of the defense of this golf course, and I've also enjoyed coming here.   
I think it's a great second shot golf course.   It's different than a lot of courses we play on Tour here, all about as far as you can hit it.   It's more of a position golf course which is a lot of fun to play.  
MARK STEVENS:   Thank you.   Questions?  
   
 Q.   You're saying the TV guys out here, you've been playing well the last month.   What has changed the last month?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   I went to my old coach I had for after four and a half years, would have been maybe six weeks ago.   I'd been struggling with my ball striking for a little while.   Kind of searching.   And went back to him and started working on some things that we worked on in the past and just kind of clicked, you know, little comfort factor with me knowing I played my best golf working with him in the past and we clicked and start playing a little better and just kind of been building the confidence week by week.   
I played great in Canada, I just had no confidence.   I started to rebuild my confidence and go for some shots and things like that, then my confidence is a little higher.   Lacked a little bit.   I built some more and kind of how it goes.   It keeps getting a little more.   Been playing great.   Home last week.   Didn't practice too hard.   Kind of wanted to keep the things going and came here this week and obviously very excited.  
   
 Q.   Coach's name?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   Mark "McCown".  
   
 Q.   You came in 2008 as the bubble boy.   Were you 125th?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   I can't remember.   I remember I came in here and needed to play well and I think I finished 4th or 7th or I think it was 4th.   Played my way in.   
Yeah.   Since then I've always liked this golf course.   As I said, I feel comfortable on it.   You don't have to -- I only hit 3, 4 drivers today.   I hit 5-wood probably eight, nine times off the tee.   It's just a position course, get in the fairway and kind of pick and choose your spots where you can go at flags.   That's the kind of golf I like.   
Obviously I'm coming here really wanting to get in next week with where The Barclays is going back to Ridgewood where I left a little disappointed in the finish last time.   I very much like to get back there and have another shot at that.  
   
 Q.   Having not been here for a few years, did you learn anything the last couple days when you played here that helped out?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   You know, bent grass greens, the greens are obviously a lot softer.   You got to kind of pick and choose where you go at flags a little more.   You got to get it in the fairway now.   The last ball, I hit a 9-iron in out of the rough.   My ball landed probably just short middle and went straight over the back of the green.   
You can't hold the greens if you're coming out of the green on some of the holes.   Your premium is definitely on in the fairways.   Maybe a little more than used to be with the greens softer.   So, you know, hopefully I managed to hit most of them today.   Hopefully I can keep that going.  
   
 Q.   Did you play it Tuesday or just yesterday?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   I played Tuesday, made all of them on Tuesday and played yesterday.   You know, I only am 30 minutes from here.   The course I play is firm, bermuda greens, too.   Last week I was playing and practicing there a lot and that definitely helped coming from Reno where the grass is totally different and last week at home getting used to the conditions how they're going to be this week.   These greens are similar.  
MARK STEVENS:   Are you spending most of the your time in Charlotte now?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   We split time between Arizona and Charlotte.   We're over in Charlotte which makes it nice, easy kind of home week.  
   
 Q.   Martin, in saying how well you played the last month, when you look back in the bigger picture of this season, how would you look back and sort of assess the season?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   Not played very well.   I've really not played that much at all this year.   I took five weeks off at the start of the year when our little boy was born.   I had the luxury of winning last year where golf was on the back burner -- not the first half, maybe first third of the year this year which I was more than happy to do.  
I wouldn't change a thing about how I've gone about this year in terms of my schedule.   I just didn't play good enough.   Even with the main events, I just played decent I would have been okay.   Struggled all year but, you know, it's been a fun year away from golf.   It's just golf been a little frustrating.   Last few weeks have been nice.  
MARK STEVENS:   Thanks a lot, Martin.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT