THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (Inaudible).
MARTIN LAIRD:  It doesn't seem there is as many low
scores this afternoon, I think because of the greens.
Q.  Is that as fast as you've played on?
MARTIN LAIRD:  No, I've played on faster.  To be honest,
this is more what I like.  Last week I said the greens aren't fast
enough.  It's definitely not an issue this week.  I putted well
today.  I feel more comfortable on these greens.  I don't have to
think of the speed, I just feel the speed.  Whereas last week I
reminded myself to hit it.  This week I can go over and see the
putt and feel it, which is obviously going to lead to better
putting, hopefully.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARTIN LAIRD:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  I played really
well today.  I didn't have very good shots at the first, and then
after that, I had a couple of poorish shots in the middle of my
round there, but apart from that I played really well.  As you can
see, there's not much green left on that golf course.  It's very,
very fast and firm.  So anything under par this afternoon I think
is a good round.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARTIN LAIRD:  You know, I hit a really nice shot into
par-3, on 4.  I hit it into about 8, 10 feet.  And birdied the
next hole.  And that was kind of nice.  But actually probably
after bogeying the first, I had a great shot into 2 about three
feet.  It's nice to get one right back.  And I just played well
today.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARTIN LAIRD:  Definitely.  I mean, yeah, playing the
shots.  I mean, like for example, there on 17, I had 240 yards and
hit a 6-iron ten yards past the pin.  It was easier to pull the
club knowing having a week's practice of landing it.  Some of the
clubs you have to choose out here when it's this firm and windy.
It's comical how far you can hit it because it starts bouncing and
doesn't stop for a while.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARTIN LAIRD:  It's not.  It's fun.  And I think some
links courses when they get this fast and firm, I don't think
they're fun, because you can hit a good shot and you think it's
perfect, and then you end up in a bunker beside the green or
missed a fairway.  So that's why this is such a great golf course.
For example, on 17 today I had a good tee shot and it was going to
be in the fairway, and then I hit my second shot, I started
walking, because you know it's going to bounce forward and do what
you're expecting to do.  You're not going to see it kick straight
right and end up in a bunker.  It's really hard to hit it close,
but if you hit good shots, you can hit it close.  You can use the
bumps and the slopes to do it.
No, I had a lot of fun today, yeah.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT