MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARTIN LAIRD:   Not happy with the score.   Really didn't play very well, especially the last few holes, made a couple mental mistakes, hit it over a couple of greens.   I think I hit it over six greens today, which is probably the toughest golf course we play all year and I hit it over greens.   I drove the ball bad, and the fairways I did hit, I hit it over the flipping green, so a little frustrating.

Q.   Is that just mental more than anything else?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, like 15, finally I hit a good tee shot down the middle and hit it over the back of that green to a back pin and made par.   I struggled off the tee, hit four or five tee shots I normally don't.   I never hit pull‑hooks and I hit four of them today.   So I'm pretty tired, I think.   Last week kind of took its toll.   I definitely felt the last four or five holes I was dragging a bit.   It doesn't help when you're 3‑ or 4‑over par and you're tired.   It's tough to‑‑ but you know, I'm still‑‑ like coming up 18 there, I hit 6‑iron that never left the flag, and it was the wrong club, but I'm hitting good shots, just too many mental mistakes cost me today.

Q.   This is five in a row for you, isn't it?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Five in a row.   I was really tired at the start of this week, and I felt better yesterday and I felt okay this morning, but it's a grind out there when you're driving it in the trees and I tended to do that too much today and was kind of battling right from the‑‑ drove it in the left trees on the first hole and was kind of battling from them.

Q.   After last week do people recognize you a bit more? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   No, I don't know.   I mean, I've had lots of people in England congratulate me on last week and getting in here, but I don't know if they've recognized me more or not.   But definitely people have been great all this week and today, too, people shouting congrats on last week.

Q.   You'll get a bit of a sleep‑in tomorrow, don't you?
MARTIN LAIRD:   No, I'm early tomorrow, which I actually like.   It's kind of frustrating I am going to turn that into some kind of motivation tomorrow and get after this golf course, because I'll tell you, today, you do not get an easier day at Augusta.   The conditions are perfect, the ball is going far, the course is immaculate, the greens are holding, and that's why there's some good scores out there.

Q.   Talk about Jamie at 6. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, it was fun.   Always nice to see a hole‑in‑one, especially here.   It looked good all the way, and Mark called it when I was on the way down, he shouted, "go in," and it doesn't often do it when people shout it, and it did. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT