ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2012
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That must feel very good. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you know, I did exactly what I needed to to get myself back in the mix here.   My goal was to shoot a low one, and I obviously did that and I'm happy. 
There was a bit in the middle, four or five holes, wind seemed to pick up a little bit but not much wind all day.   On the front nine especially there were some generous pin positions and I felt like when you saw them, you could really attack on the front nine and try to get kind of under par early and then see what happens on the back. 

Q.   On 17, you mis‑cued off the tee; what happened there? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, right between clubs, between a four and I've iron and decided to go with a 4‑iron and try to hit it high up into the wind and probably was the wrong club and just didn't really trust it that much.   Was a little disappointing because I don't mind making a bogey or a bad swing, but a bad decision, so a little annoying and that's really what that was.   I'm not going to complain.   The birdie on the last was nice to cancel that one out. 

Q.   What do you think it will take tomorrow? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   I don't know.   I think no wind, you've got to get to 20‑under.   I don't know what the forecast is for tomorrow but imagine I'll probably be‑‑ at 14, I might be a couple back going into tomorrow.   I'm right there and hopefully can go out and play well again tomorrow.

Q.   Were you aware of the gallery following you around today? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Definitely, I've got friends and family in the gallery but also the local people cheering me on.   It was great, seemed like every birdie I made, I picked up a few more people and it was great to hear them willing you on. 

Q.   How do you find the licks golf, do you have to adjust to it after playing the PGA TOUR?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, I've really not played that much links golf in my life to be honest.   It's a shame this isn't really like links golf, because there's no wind and the greens are, for a links course, relatively soft.   I said at the start of the week, if it was like this all week, it would probably favour me more than if it was firm and fast and really windy and it's kind of looking that way. 
I love playing links golf.   Even though my record is not great on it, I enjoy it every time I do it.   It's also fun to have a different challenge. 

Q.   Castle Stuart is a new links course; how does it compare with the more traditional links courses you've played?
MARTIN LAIRD:   It's a little different.   The first few holes on the front nine and back nine are more traditional links but when you get on the top it's a little different, wider fairways.   It's one of these courses, the first time I played it, I thought it was good but not great but every time I play it, I seem to appreciate it a little more. 
Everyone is going to say I'm probably just saying this because I played good today, but you do find out a little bit more about the course every time you play it, and I think it's a great track.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT