ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2012
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Martin, a good round, are you pleased with your days efforts? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   I got off to a great start, 4‑under through six and at that point would have liked to have more than 4‑under.   But had a struggle in the middle and managed to finish strong so overall I'm happy.

Q.   Strong finish makes it feel better, doesn't it, two birdies in the last three. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   If I finished at 2‑under I wouldn't have been very happy.   As I said, 4‑under through six and my only two bogeys of the day were 3‑putts and those are the most annoying ones.   Very nice birdieing 16 and 18, make dinner taste a little better.

Q.   What happened, you were 4‑under earlier as you said; what happened to your game? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   I just started not hitting it close.   I said that to my caddie, I was 50, 60 feet it seemed like every hole, and it's tougher to 2‑putt and make birdies and that puts pressure on the putter.   Lost the swing in the middle and hit some good shots coming in.   Feeling good for tomorrow.

Q.   The greens being slower than what you're used to in the United States, does that take some time to get used to? 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, it does.   These are not too bad, though.   These are pretty good speed.   I left a few out there short, and then the one on 10, I smashed it eight feet by and missed coming back.   Takes a little getting used to, but putted pretty well today and made a few nice ones so happy with that.

Q.   Looking forward to smoother greens and an early morning start?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Exactly.   I think you can see the really low scores were out this morning.   Just a ten‑mile‑an‑hour breeze makes such a difference on this golf course.   Hopefully in the morning, no wind and the greens will be perfect. 
4‑under through six, you're hoping for a little better than 4‑under to finish but overall happy with the tough.   Got a little tough on the back nine with the breeze picking up, so, yeah, I'm happy with that.

Q.   What was good about your game today?
MARTIN LAIRD:   I hit it very solid.   My irons were good.   I don't think I chipped once all day.   The only greens I missed were just on the fringe, so I could putt.   That's a good sign when you never need to chip all day.   That was a strength and I putted pretty solid as well, so happy with that.

Q.   Six off the lead, do you feel as if that's a good start?
MARTIN LAIRD:   You can't really look at the lead right now.   Francesco obviously played an unbelievable round this morning, and you know, he's got to slow down, you hope, but six back‑‑ but only three back of second and two back of third I think it was.   So, right there. 

Q.   What are the special problems of Castle Stuart?
MARTIN LAIRD:   These greens are small, so even on some of the shorter holes, if it's downwind and you get out of position on the tee, it's tough to hit the green, never mind get it close. 
So you've really got‑‑ even though the fairways are wide, you've got to pick your sides of the fairway.   It's not a case of smashing it out there and chipping it on. 

Q.   Good response from the galleries?
MARTIN LAIRD:   It's always great to be back in Scotland.   Playing with Paul Lawrie, and Phil, we had a good crowd out there and I love coming back and playing in front of the home crowd.   Can't complain. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT