THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2012
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your day. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, any time you go around this golf course bogey‑free is obviously a very good day.   I putted really well and chipped the ball well.   You know, I did miss a few greens out there from good spots in the middle of the fairways but managed to scramble really well and chipped them up there close enough where I could make the putt. 
But as I said the key to today's round was the putter and any time I had a chance for birdie, I rolled it in.

Q.   Sometimes you just have to keep the round going, right.   Did that happen to you a couple of times today?
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, definitely.   No.   18, really.   I birdied 16, 17, to get going nicely on the back nine and then hit a terrible shot on 18 short right of the green and had a really good up‑and‑down and followed it on No. 1 from middle of the fairway short right of the green and got up‑and‑down.   If I bogey both of those, who knows what I would have shot. 
Those are just as important as birdies, those momentum par saves.   But around this golf course, you know you're going to have to do that.   This place is so hard that you're not going to just hit it to the middle of the green all weekend, or most people are not going to hit to the middle of the green all weekend and have easy 2‑putts.   It's a tricky golf course.

Q.   So there's nowhere to free‑wheel over it, you have to grind over every shot?
MARTIN LAIRD:   That's what we were talking about, No. 7 tee shot the wind was in off the left, which was an awkward wind for me.   And I was saying to my caddie, there's just no bail‑out; you have got to stand up and hit a good tee shot.   I didn't; I tried to bail out a little bit and hit in the right rough and I managed to scramble for a par. 
That hole is a perfect example; as you said, there's nowhere to just kind of, oh, hit it every here.   You just have to stand up and hit a good golf shot.

Q.   So, mentally challenging through 18 holes to have every shot like that. 
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, you've got to really try and commit to every shot, but, you know, that's the whole design of this golf course.   It's supposed to keep you uncomfortable the whole way around. 
As I said there's only two or three tee shots where you stand up and you're like, well, this is the shot we need to hit.   There's different shapes pretty much off every hole and that's what makes it tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT