DESERT CLASSIC
January 17, 2019
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a round of golf you had out there today.  What a way to start 2019 for you.
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, obviously coming out your first round of the new year and making nine birdies is always going to be nice.  Conditions were ideal out there for scoring, the course is in fantastic shape and there was not much wind at all.  So I've been playing nicely the last week at home and was excited to get here and nice to take it on the course.
Q. We have you missing just one fairway, hitting 16 of 18 greens.
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, I hit it really nicely.  You normally do when you make that many birdies.  But if you get it in the fairway around this golf course you can definitely got some wedges and short irons, and then the par-5s are reachable, so I've been hitting it nicely and I drove it great today and hopefully continue the rest of the week.
Q. There are going to be some really good scores shot today at La Quinta.  Does that bother you, does that matter, do you just play the golf course you're on and sort things outcome Sunday?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you can't think about really anything.  I just go and do what I can do.  It's always kind of a weird tournament in terms of you don't really know where you stand until the whole three courses have been played.  I know I'm playing well so just continue doing that the next couple of rounds on the other two courses and then come back here Sunday and see where we are.
Q. For a Scotsman we brought you almost Scottish type weather here in the California desert.
MARTIN LAIRD: It's not normally like this.  This is my 12th straight year playing this tournament and maybe the second year it's been like this.  But I think that it's supposed to be nice the rest of the week so it will be good.
Q. When the conditions are like this, does that make you feel at home at all or more comfortable in any way?
MARTIN LAIRD: No, I've lived longer in the States than I have in Scotland, so I'm, I'm more used to nice warm weather than Scottish weather now.  But it really wasn't that bad when we got going.  There was no wind, it wasn't that cold, it was fine.
Q. We're used to perfection here so any deviation, you know.  As the gentleman referenced, your first start, first round of 2019.  What you did do over the last if you months, anything in particular you worked on?
MARTIN LAIRD: I took a long break.  I played my last tournament the week of Thanksgiving in Australia and then I took, I didn't play, touch a club until like January 2nd.  So I took a nice long break and went back to Scotland with my family for Christmas and got away from the game for a while and then came back and practiced hard the last week or two and ready to come here and obviously in a good spot.
Q. When you start the season a new is there a feeling of freshness every year?  Do you kind of have a feeling like hey it's a whole new year?
MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, definitely freshness.  As I said, I took, six, seven weeks off, didn't touch a club, so it's definitely freshness.  Excited to get going.  Obviously it paid off.
Q. As you said, you played in this tournament a lot over the years, you've had a lot of really, really solid finishes, what is it about this event that finds you playing well?
MARTIN LAIRD: I just like it.  It's a nice place to always start my year.  And I live in Scottsdale so I live in the desert so I'm used to playing in the desert.  But, no, I don't know, I've always liked it here, always seemed to play decent here and I'm glad to be back.
Q. Tell me about your birdie run, five in a row.  Anything remarkable happen during that stretch?  What was working for you?
MARTIN LAIRD: I bogeyed the hole before I went on that run and it was a bad bogey from the middle of the fairway and I kind of, it was nice to -- I had a par-5 coming up and hit a really nice wedge shot into a tough little pin in that back and made birdie.  Then I just everything was kind of working there for that little stretch.  Made a couple of 15-footers, but was really hitting it reasonably close and making some nice putts.  As I said, I drove it really well today, so around this golf course if you're in the fairway you can be pretty aggressive going for flags, especially after the rain with the greens being pretty soft.  So just tried to do that and keep it going.
Q. Since you picked up a club, is there anything particular you've been working on?
MARTIN LAIRD: No, not really, just kind of when I came back my coach came out the first couple days and I was hitting it good like right off the bat and didn't really work on too much, just kind of tightened a couple things up.  So no, nothing really specific, just kind of sharpening everything and trying to get ready to come here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT