THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on the day?
 MARTIN LAIRD: It was fun, not overly happy with my score, but solid start to the week. Not bad for my first round of links golf in a while. It felt like it was playing a lot easier today after playing the Pro-Am yesterday afternoon but it was a little different wind again than we have had in any of the practise rounds, and I really think there's quite a few pins that I thought was pretty easy. 
 I'm not surprised at the scoring. I don't know if it's just because of the first day of the tournament here they were overly generous in pin positions because there was quite a lot of them with slopes that ran towards them.
 So 2-under isn't great, but it's not bad. 

 Q. You started with misjudging the wind on 11? 
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, just didn't hit a very good shot. Had the wrong club and hit a bad shot, not a good combination. I thought the wind was hurting more than it was and cut up a 7-iron and pulled it a little and it was too much club and it went in. 
 Obviously nice making a 30-, 35-footer for birdie on the first and making the 10-footer on the next hole for bogey. But felt like I left a lot of shots out there. I made a few nice long ones, but I missed a handful inside ten feet today, and just from green-side on 12 to start of the day and didn't get up-and-down, things like that, and 14 was the same. 
 As I said, a little frustrated but I'll take 2-under, it's not that bad. 

 Q. Unlike you this season?
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, I struggled reading the greens. I think I missed every putt high. Greens are a little slower than I'm used to playing normally and I think because of that, I'm struggling to read them, as well. 
 Because I feel like I hit a lot of good putts and just missed them. Especially those last coming in, the last -- I hit probably the best shot I hit all day was into 16 -- or, sorry, my 16th hole, No. 7, and that putt broke about two cups and didn't move an inch, so wasn't even close. I know tomorrow now to play less great so hopefully I'll make some more. 
 This golf course, the crowd doesn't really get right next to you up on the hills, but saw a few relatives and stuff and it's nice that they are all out watching.

 Q. Must be a nice change for you, as well?
 MARTIN LAIRD: It is, hearing people shout, "Martin," I don't think I've heard that in a while, especially not in a first round. Maybe at the end of tournament if I'm doing well. But it's always nice to be back playing links golf at home. I had fun today even though I'm a little frustrated with my score. 

 Q. At the U.S. tournaments, do you get Scottish support?
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, pretty much every week there's a handful of people from Scotland that turn up which is nice. They always catch me at some point during the week and say hello, which is all good. Quite often see some Scottish flags being held behind the ropes which is always nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT