WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 7, 2011
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously a long week with all the frost delays. Tied for second right now. Obviously got to feel good about the week. 
 MARTIN LAIRD: Yeah, you know, it's funny, I live here and have played this course a bunch and I've never played good here before. I hit it great the first two rounds, just didn't make a putt, and then birdied the last two to even make the cut, birdied 17 and 18 to make the cut on whichever day it was, Saturday, second round. And then the only difference was on the weekend, or weekend into Monday I just started making putts. 
 Obviously to barely make the cut and then shoot 13-under on the weekend, obviously very happy. You know, I've been playing good all year so far, even though I missed the cut at Buick (Farmers Insurance), I feel like I'm playing good, so it's nice to play good. I think it honestly helps when you live here. It's a lot easier to stop and start. I didn't even leave my house a couple mornings for the frost delay. I live five, ten minutes away, and that definitely helps. 
 As we were saying, if there's ever a week for all these delays and stops and starts it's when you're at home and you can just kind of chill out on your sofa when you're meant to be playing. That's one of the big reasons why I was rested up for the 35 holes yesterday or whatever we played.

 Q. What does this do for your confidence moving forward? Are you playing Pebble this beach?
 MARTIN LAIRD: No, I'm not. I'm going to take Pebble off and then playing LA and the Match Play. 
 I've always kind of struggled to start the year. This has always been -- if you look at my results, I've never really done anything before June, July, and my first three events, I've been in the final group at Bob Hope, didn't play great in the final round, but really didn't feel like I played as bad as the score showed. It was just one of those days that anything kind of -- when it was 50/50, went the wrong 50, and that has to do a lot with confidence. 
 As I said, at the Buick (Farmers Insurance) I just didn't really score good at all, didn't make any putts, and then obviously this week was a good week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT