U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2018
Lesia Tsurenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/L. Tsurenko   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously not the result you wanted, and I know it's fresh after the match, but are there a lot of positives you take away from this tournament, as far as you got?  
LESIA TSURENKO: Yeah.  In general this tournament is really positive for me.  Unfortunately during this tournament I had many issues with my health, and today was not my day obviously.  I was not feeling well.   
I hate matches like this.  I didn't want to show this kind of game in front of this big crowd, but unfortunately I'm just not able to play now.   
 Q.  Can I ask what the health issues were?  
LESIA TSURENKO: I just woke up today with a viral illness or whatever it is.  I think.  I don't know.  I don't know what happened, but my throat is not well.  I'm not breathing well.   
 Q.  How were the last 48 hours for you?  Had you felt that you had recovered from what you were going through in the heat?  
LESIA TSURENKO: Yeah, everything was going well until this morning.  Yeah, I woke up with sickness.   
 Q.  What did you do yesterday?  Did you have your normal routine?  You had such a demanding match in the last round, so did you rest more?  
LESIA TSURENKO: Yeah, first I thought I will practice during the day, like at 1:00, but then I changed my mind and I came here late in the evening to play from 5:00 to 6:00.   
Yeah, everything was going well.  I ate well.  I had an extra sleep, good sleep.  Then I had really short session on court.  So, yeah, everything quite normal.  I was drinking a lot of water.  But, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you give any thought to pulling out of the match, given your condition?  
LESIA TSURENKO: I didn't want to do it because of the crowd and because it's a quarterfinal.  I took a lot of medication before match and was not really, I think, was -- nothing else we could do.   
 Q.  Obviously you had your own issues, but from Osaka's standpoint, how would you describe her game and what kind of issues did she present?  
LESIA TSURENKO: I think she played really good today.  She didn't give me any chance.  She was serving well.  She was really patient.  I think she didn't try to go for a winner immediately.  So all the credits to her.  She played really good.  Her level was really high today.   
 Q.  How different is it to be on the court feeling sick versus feeling affected by the heat?  
LESIA TSURENKO: It's just strange, because -- I don't know.  It's just not the way I want to be on court, for sure.   
 Q.  Will you stay to try to recover before you leave, or will you try to get out of here?  
LESIA TSURENKO: I didn't think about it.  I just finished match.  I don't know.  I had shower.  I need to eat.  Maybe speak to my team, and we will decide what we're going to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT