CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 27, 2015
Lesia Tsurenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. TSURENKO/K. Pliskova
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. We should call you the lucky winner, forget lucky loser. 
LESIA TSURENKO: Yes (smiling). 

Q. What are you doing? Kind of inspired you since that happened. 
LESIA TSURENKO: Yeah, I'm just trying to play a good tennis, do some good shots. Just all comes together. I had two good wins. 

Q. Did it take the pressure off? Or the fact when you got the call, you were ready to go home basically, go to New York, kind of relaxing or... 
LESIA TSURENKO: I don't feel any pressure because I'm playing players who are higher ranked than me, so I have nothing to lose. I can just beat them or lose to them. 
It just makes me happy to play in the main draw of big tournaments, for sure. 

Q. You've played a lot of matches from the qualifier till now. How do you feel physically?
LESIA TSURENKO: Oh, I feel okay because I had that day off after quallies. I feel very good physically. I didn't play long matches. So, yeah, I'm very good. 

Q. Does winning these two matches here in the main draw make up for a little disappointment you might have had in qualifying?
LESIA TSURENKO: Yes (smiling). 

Q. Your success this year against top‑10 opponents, is it because you do relax, don't feel the pressure, or do you elevate your game a little bit?
LESIA TSURENKO: I'm just trying, before match, to find some keys against them. So we discuss with my coach what should I do during the match. I'm trying to do it. So I think it works. 
I understand that everyone is improving their games. But it's just, you know, a day. You win or lose. There is always a winner and loser in tennis, so... 

Q. Have you been in this position before, where you've gotten into the main draw through somebody pulling out, win some matches, make it to the semifinals? Has this happened before?
LESIA TSURENKO: I've been as a lucky loser a few times. Once was in Brisbane. Once in 's‑Hertogenbosch. In Brisbane I got to the semis. I also got the spot of the seeded player, so I was already in the second round. I also had some good matches there. I lost in semis, also in a tough match, against Pavlyuchenkova. 
I think it was 's‑Hertogenbosch two years ago on the grass, I did quarters there also. I lost a tough match against Kulichkova in last round of quallies. I got into the main draw and did quarters and lost to Halep. 
It happens sometimes if you are seeded in quallies, you lose the last match, there is some chance you can get in. 

Q. Do you feel like things are coming together any better now than you felt in the past? Do you feel like things are clicking, you're feeling it?
LESIA TSURENKO: Yeah, I have a good year. I had some good wins. I feel fit, healthy. I feel like I can do some good results this year. So, yes, it's all just coming together. I feel excited about future tournaments. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT