ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 26, 2020
Chinelle Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pakistan - 127/2, West Indies - 124/7
Q. How disappointing was that performance overall?
CHINELLE HENRY: First off, batting first, obviously we didn't start well, opening up going on a first ball duck, and then we had a partnership between Staf and Shemaine which got us to a pretty decent total to defend. But then again, going out on the field as a bowling unit, we just didn't execute as we would want to tonight.
Q. Deandra struggled to get her timing tonight, one off 9 before she got out and then struggling a bit in the field, having to relay a lot of the throws. Is that something you knew would be the case coming into the tournament? After the shoulder injury, is she struggling to get up to speed a little bit?
CHINELLE HENRY: No, everybody in this unit is playing together. Everybody is strong together. As I said, it was just disappointing for some of us as batters, and in the field we just didn't turn up as a unit, and that was just all it was tonight.
Q. I think that's the second game in a row that you've lost three wickets inside seven overs. Where is the top order going wrong at the moment?
CHINELLE HENRY: I wouldn't say top order going wrong. As I said, I just think that up top, just for the opening two games, struggled a bit. But we have two more games to go, as we as individuals know that these two games to go is a must-win game, so I'm pretty sure everybody is just going to go back to the drawing board now, and in the coming two days I'm pretty sure everybody is just going to turn up and do what they have to do.
Q. The body language of the team didn't look that good. I think you were described in the commentary as flat. Is that something you recognise, and how would you contest that?
CHINELLE HENRY: I just think that, as I said, towards the fielding performance tonight, everybody was disappointed because we know we can do much better as a fielding unit. So basically it was just -- again, we just didn't turn up tonight, and that's something we definitely have to go back to the drawing board to figure out.
Q. Just finally, Anisa Mohammed came on to bowl quite late. What was the thinking there?
CHINELLE HENRY: The captain was just, I guess, just rotating bowlers. Everybody out on the field know they have a job to do, whether you bowl early or whether you bowl late. As I said tonight, we just -- in the fielding, we just didn't turn up as a unit.
Q. I guess could have been a bit different if you had have referred the very first ball of the game tonight, as well?
CHINELLE HENRY: Well, maybe, maybe not. As I said, everything just started -- just went wrong since the first ball of the game, Hayley Matthews getting out. But as a unit, we stuck together, got to a pretty decent total, as I said.
But moving forward, we have some work to do, and I'm pretty sure for the remainder of the games we're going to turn up as a unit and play how the entire world knows us to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT