ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2019
Henri Laaksonen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/H. Laaksonen
6-1, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. The second set you play very well tennis, high percentage in the service, your force on the forehand.  What is the sensation to play good tennis and the other side Djokovic can return everything?  What is your sensation?  Frustration or, okay, I play well, I have the chance to play the same level?
HENRI LAAKSONEN: Well, I mean, maybe I was a little too passive in the first set, and he was too good on that one.  If you give anything easy for him, then he starts to attack directly.  And then if I attack myself, it wasn't good enough.
And, I mean, when I'm feeling good on my forehand, it's dangerous sometimes.  So it helps for me if I go for it.
And, I mean, in the beginning, I just didn't want to go out there and whenever I get the first chance on the forehand that I hit everything out, what I can with my forehand.  So I didn't want to play like that.
But then I saw myself in the first set that it's not working, what I tried to do in the first set, and he's just too good for that.  So I had to start to take risks also on my forehand.
And, yeah, it wasn't easy out there.  I think he was serving well.  And especially the first set went really fast, and I couldn't get into the rallies really and to get it going.
And, yeah, I mean, that's why he's No. 1.  He doesn't give anything for free.  And I didn't get a lot of free points on my serve.  Or also, even I served good, then I didn't have anything easy after the first serve.
So, I mean, that's why he's so good, you know.  He doesn't give anything for free and you have to earn every single point.
Q. How much regrets do you have today?
HENRI LAAKSONEN: None.  I mean, I did everything I could there.  He's No. 1.  I'm -- I don't know -- 110.  I gave everything what I have and that was the plan.  How I want to start the match, how I started it, it didn't work.  I changed something.  I was working better, but it wasn't enough.  You know, he's too good for me.
And, I mean, also how I look at the tournament, I mean, it's not bad result for me.  It's the maximum what I could get out of this tournament, and I have to be happy with that one.  And then in the future, I try to do it better again, you know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT