QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 23, 2015
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/A. Kerber 
  6‑0, 6‑3 
   
 Q.   That was a bit scary what you did out there tonight?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Was it?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, very decisive win.   How important was that tonight and the way you delivered that defeat?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I'm pretty happy with it.   You know, there is not a lot of things to complain about, but I always try to look at things what I can do maybe better or just stay more consistent.   
I felt like, especially in the first set, I really stepped with the right attitude, with the right game plan and really executed it well.   
And the second set, I knew she was going to fight back and for me it was important to just stay consistent and stay in the moment still stay in command.   I feel like at 3‑All I've done that.   I really took the game into my own hands again and finished pretty strong again.  
   
 Q.   I know you came back at the start of the year, but tell us, your foot injury, is that completely healed now?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, it's feeling pretty good right now.   I always talk, you know, day‑by‑day and I don't know what's going to happen in the future, but right now I'm feeling good.   I'm really paying a lot of attention for prevention and really working hard on my body to keep it strong, to keep it loose.   
I had a whole year to learn about my body last year.   So I think I took the best out of those experience and try to developa little bit of new habits, a little bit of new routines as well and just try to keep things simple and work hard.   
   
 Q.   And can you tell us how it's going with your new coach?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   So far, so good.   I cannot complain.   It's been a week actually.   So it's been fun.   I feel like our personalities connect, so that's really important for me.   And we'll see how it goes, but I'm enjoying myself.   I hope he enjoys coaching me as well and I'm looking forward to this journey definitely.  
   
 Q.   You must be very pleased to have found you someone like him.   He's got a great track record, doesn't he?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, it's not an easy choice to get a coach, especially for me after I've only had two coaches in my professional career.   I didn't even anybody by name.   So I had to look in a little.   Yeah, he's done some impressive work with different players, so I'm just wanting to try.   And I feel like records don't mean anything.   It's about the chemistry, about the connection, how you feel about another person.   Sometimes that is much more important than any kind of skill, especially at this level.  
   
 Q.   To the coach question, it was mentioned that Sam is not coaching you anymore, as we know.   How did this come about actually, and how tough was it for you to make the step?   As you mentioned, you didn't have many coaches in your career?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I've talk an it before.   It wasn't an easy situation just because of the relationship that I have with Sam.   He's been my coach for such a long time and he's been more than a coach to me.   Some things just have a natural ending and he made this decision and I have to respect that.   He gave me his reasons and I will definitely respect that.   I will never forget those moments that we had and we're still going to be close off court and that's never going to change, our relationship off the court.   It was just sad because there are some times it's just the way it is.   
   
 Q.   There was a Tweet of you after the match of Genie Bouchard...   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Which has nothing to do with her match.   Because I already explained the situation.   I feel like I saw this article actually.   Chris, I talked to him about it and he sent me this article that said how one Tweet changed something about this one person and I refuse to feel obliged that I have to defend what I said.   I say whatever I want to say, and that had nothing do with that.   First of all, I'm not a beater person.   And I respect Sam.   I respect Genie.   I respect players.   So I would never even consider of doing something like that.   I was so excited about watching a movie and whatever people can take and comment on that is their business, but I refuse to live my life or live my social life thinking like, Oh, what is somebody going to think.   I'm expressing myself the way I am and it's never going to change.   
   
 Q.   As we know, Kerber was in the top‑10 for more than two and a half years actually now.   She's definitely a very grown top‑10 player.   Did you expect more resistance of her especially in the first set?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, when I walk on the court, I don't really expect, try not to expect so much.   It can work against you and it can work with you.   So I just try to stay in the moment and focused on what I have to do and not really get lost in what my opponent does.   Because that's what works the best way for me.   
I think it's important to keep your head simple and straight and executing what you have to do.   
   
 Q.   One more question about Sam.   You said that sometimes things come to a natural end, but as far as you were concerned, you didn't feel that your relationship with Sam had come to an end, did you?   You were surprised by it, and you would have been happy for it to continue, is that right?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I was surprised because it was sudden, but sometimes you talk about things and sometimes maybe you realize if it's true or not.   For me, to be honest, it's something that I don't think about much.   I just really had to move on and move on quickly because it's the middle of the season and I had to make choices and really I'm a strong believer in that whatever happens happens for a reason.   
I know he has my best interest at heart because, as I mentioned before, our relationship that we have is really special and it's always going to be that way.   Whatever we had that conversation, it's always going to stay between us and it's never going to be public.   As I mentioned before, it was just sad.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT