AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2015
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. CIBULKOVA/V. Azarenka  6-2, 3-6, 6-3  An interview with:  VICTORIA AZARENKA   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  You're a glass half full kind of girl.  Disappointing, but what do you take out of the whole Australian campaign?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: I take it as a progress.  I think there are a lot of the positive things to take from here.  It's a good start.  There was some good quality of tennis today, even though the result is not the one that I wanted and not what I was looking for.  But I need to be realistic a little bit and keep working hard and try to sharpen my game.  I need to be more consistent and I need to be able to take my opportunities when I have them.  But overall, I can be pretty happy.  But I'm such a perfectionist that I don't want to be satisfied.   Q.  You had a fall in the sixth and eighth game in the second set, did that affect you at all?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: The fall?   Q.  Yeah.  VICTORIA AZARENKA: No, I just slided and it's fine actually.  I think the first time I ever did a split.  So I heard a bunch of photos bursting like (indicating rapid clicking), so I want some pictures.  If I did the full split that's going to be legendary.  Seriously.   Q.  Is that something you've been working towards, the full split?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: Not really, but it surprised me.   Q.  I know today must be disappointing, but would you say that this tournament has been the most fun you've had on the court in a while or could you compare this year to previous years?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: Definitely compared to last year it's a big difference.  But just overall, I think my attitude and my approach to matches, to tournaments, has changed.  That's more satisfying for me.  I feel that I'm very honest with myself on my effort and I'm working really hard.  I'm just trying to do my best, so there are things I can be pleased with.  As I said, I want to be realistic and I want to do better.  I don't want to stop here and be, Okay, this was a good match.  I want to strive for much better.  I'm just going to work hard, try to analyze this match, this tournament, and keep working.  I think that the direction where I'm heading is the right way.  Just needs to -- I just need to go there step by step.   Q.  Nick Kyrgios won last night.  Not sure how much of that match you watched.  I know you developed an off-court friendship with him.  What do you see in his game?  Obviously he's an up and comer not only here but on the men's tour overall.  VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think he has a lot of potential.  I think he has a great, I don't know, hunger for success, and it's really refreshing to see somebody so young being so confident with themself on the court.  So that's -- I mean, for Australia I think it's great to have such talent.  I wish him all the best of luck.  He did such an amazing job yesterday.  Yeah, really proud.   Q.  What is one of the best things about Dominika's game?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: She really went for her shots today and was very fearless throughout whole match.  She's the type of player that sometimes you just get -- she gets in that groove and it's a little bit difficult to break that rhythm.  But I think I still had my opportunities, and I really just didn't -- I wasn't present enough today, and she was there.  She jumped on those opportunities and really took control of that.  So I think in that aspect, I have to give her a lot of credit.   Q.  You don't think her height is a disadvantage?  She said she's one of the smallest on the tour, so she has to work harder.  VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, she doesn't need to bend her legs that low as we do.  So it's 50/50.  Yeah, their high balls might be a little bit tougher for her but lower balls are definitely easier.   Q.  Your skirt on your left thigh was folded under for most of the tournament.  Was that on purpose or doing that for some reason?  Kind of a random question, I know, but...  VICTORIA AZARENKA: If I'm going to tell you I was trying to show a little bit of my skin, would that satisfy you?  No, it's really just to make sure that the ball doesn't fall out.  When it's too flowy sometimes I get my racquet caught in my skirt.  So just to be more comfortable.   Q.  You come to the net quite often with 70% success.  So it's a weapon you will keep on developing?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: Definitely.  I think that ratio is very good statistic for me to look forward to.  I think that I could have done a little bit better in the important moments.  I think I should develop that habit more and more because definitely working for me.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT