U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2014
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  E. MAKAROVA/V. Azarenka  6-4, 6-2   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Your PR representative tweeted a little while ago after the match that you were suffering from food poisoning.  What were the circumstances and how did it affect you?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: You know what?  I don't really want to talk about it.  I just, you know, want to give credit to my opponent.  She played really well today. Am I disappointed?  Yes, I'm disappointed.  But I feel like I tried my best with whatever I had.  But, you know, I just want to wish her good luck.  That's it.  I'm out of the tournament.   Q.  How would you describe the luck that you have had this year?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't want to -- I don't care.  I mean, it's not luck.  It's nothing.  It's just circumstances that you have to deal with and something that comes up and you deal with it. I had to deal with it today, and, you know, as I said, I did my best with what I could today. Can I play better?  Absolutely.  Will I doubt that I can play on a higher level?  No chance.  Nobody will tell me what I can or I cannot do.   Q.  She played kind of a classic left hander's game and made a lot of winners; did pretty well with her serve.  Can you analyze her game and talk just a little bit about how you felt she played?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think she was really solid.  She did serve really well, especially in the important moments.  I think it gave her a lot of opportunities to make winners and everything. But, you know, even though I felt like I still had chances, I just didn't really play selective and the right tennis at the right moment. But she definitely stepped it up.  She was really consistent.  You know, as I said, she deserves to win, and I wish her good luck.   Q.  Having been a part of the last two finals, how disappointing is it not to be back there again?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: Very disappointing.  How many times -- like how do you feel?  How do you think somebody will answer a question like that?  Of course it is disappointing.  It's not about that you have been two times in the final before that's going to make it better.  It just is what it is today. It's not the end of the world.  It's something I can take positive from this tournament, you know.  Two months ago I didn't even think that I was going to be able to play today. But, you know, trying to ask and put some kind of pressure like that with those questions I think is no point.   Q.  You had a bit of food poisoning the previous night?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah.   Q.  No practice yesterday?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: No, I didn't practice yesterday.   Q.  Few times during today's match you made almost like a move towards your mouth.  Were you feeling okay out there?  Was there anything going on out there?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: Guys, I'm not going to make excuses for myself.  You can ask me 20 times the same question.  I'm not going to make any excuses today. As I said, I did the best I could today.  I want to give full credit to my opponent.  She deserves to win.  She played much better than me today.  That's it.   Q.  Are you able, under the circumstances, to say you have some satisfaction in getting this far based on everything that's kind of gone on?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: Definitely.  You know, it's first time since Australian Open where I was able to play five matches during the tournament, so I can definitely take out the positive of this tournament. You know, whatever I have done on and off the court during practice I never give up on every single day.  You know, I have been working really hard.  I know that's going to pay off. So today is just one of the days that I have to go through, and I'm going to go through it.   Q.  What sort of schedule do you now have coming up, do you know?  VICTORIA AZARENKA: I'm going to play a tournament in Tokyo.  I entered tournaments in Wuhan and Beijing.  I'm going to try to play as much as I can in the end of the year.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT