ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2014
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/H. Watson
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You had your right knee heavily strapped during that game.   I understand you fell the other day.   Did it cause you a lot of pain going forward? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't really want to talk about that.   I just want to focus on the match overall. 
I felt fine.   I moved pretty well, so... 

Q.   What are you happy about this match?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think I started it really well.   I played pretty consistent throughout the whole match. 
I think she stepped up her game more in the second set.   I think I could have done a little bit better.   I felt like I started to be less dominant in a couple of games, then I brought it back. 
But she started to serve much better in the second set.   I felt that I did the right things.   I stepped up when I needed.   I was aggressive and moved pretty well. 
It was a better match, better quality, more consistency, and I took a lot more chances today compared to my first match.   But, of course, it was different players. 

Q.   Is there something that you would like to improve, something specific that you're not satisfied about?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I always want to improve.   I think it's a progression from match to match.   It's a little bit delicate to see that because you play against different opponents.   Sometimes you have to use a little bit of a different shot selection or a little bit of a different tactic. 
But if I focus on myself, I think I can improve pretty much everywhere to get even more consistent, even more aggressive, place the shots better, and overall the game, developing more dynamic in the match.   Again, take my chances, go more forward. 

Q.   You might be playing Radwanska next.   Tell us about her game, and then Lisicki, what you have to do to beat them. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   They're both very different players from each other.   Agnieszka, I played her so many times.   We both know each other so well.   It's just a matter of really who is going to take the opportunities, who is going to play, you know, more better in the important moments, in the key moments. 
Lisicki, she's one of the players who is very unpredictable.   She can play a very different level of tennis.   It's sometimes difficult to predict what you're going to do about it. 
Sometimes it's just important to stay there and focus on yourself because, you know, because I don't think she sometimes know what she's doing.   But she's a very good player.   She proved herself to come up with some excellent tennis.   So she's a dangerous player. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT