WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2014
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. JOVANOVSKI/V. Azarenka
  6/3, 3/6, 7/5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Given it's only your fourth match back. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Third. 

Q.   Was there any level which you felt satisfied today in general?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, there were some things that, you know, you can always take something positive from the match. 
The thing is that I created a lot of things to make happen for me today.   I just didn't use any of those opportunities.   All that stuff that I built up was good, but not taking advantage was not great. 

Q.   At Eastbourne you said you were missing timing because you hadn't had match practice.   Was it more that, lacking that sharpness?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's consistency.   It's not enough.   It's a little bit too many mistakes like not closing the opportunities, not being sharp enough.   There are a lot of things that still has to be tuned and has to be practiced.   It basically goes down to back to work. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on your opponent's level of play today and her game in general?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I mean, she played well.   I don't want to take credit away from her or anything.   I always look at what I did.   I don't really care what the person done in front of me. 
I felt today it was a lot up to me from not converting.   I just looked at the board.   Not converting 16 breakpoints, that's just ridiculous to me. 

Q.   In terms of coming back, how much do you need match play in order to get sharper? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   How much? 

Q.   Do you think you need matches most of all to get back to where you want to be?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Practice, matches both. 

Q.   I suppose the disadvantage is it's such a short grass court season.   Was it more about getting back on the tour and back into the process of playing? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I had to start from somewhere.   It didn't really matter where it is.   I had to start.   I had to start playing and see if I can play pain‑free. 
The advantage or disadvantage, I don't really look at it.   I just start from here and that's what it is. 
It's a buildup and I'm going to have to just work hard.   I have a lot of work to do.   It's as simple as that.   It's just work and play and practice, all of it together. 

Q.   You say you have a lot of work to do.   Do you feel it's small margins between where you want to be?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, but I want to look at it because I have a lot of big margins to fill up, too.   That's the mentality and approach I'm going to take. 

Q.   When you're in the middle of it, is it hard to be patient, know that it's going to take a little time to get back?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It is.   I'm just really pissed off right now for not taking those opportunities.   I think that's okay to be that way because I really need to go through that and learn from it and just take it from here. 
I have to be honest with what is in front of me.   I can look at it as things that I created so many opportunities that I could have taken.   That's a good thing.   But also not converting is not satisfying and I need to be better.

Q.   Physically how do you think you are right now?   Do you think match fitness, endurance you have to build up?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Match endurance is important to stay more consistent in the matches.   It's going to come with matches.   But physically I feel fine.

Q.   Are you someone who is very hard on yourself?   That's quite a critical analysis you had of your game. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I have to be.   I have to be realistic.   I cannot sit here and say it's all great, because there's no moving forward from there.   I'm going to be hard on myself just because I want to be better. 

Q.   Did you not watch tennis over the time you weren't playing?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I did a little bit, but not too much.   I don't really watch much in general.   Like I don't watch every day.   But if it's on TV and I'm somewhere, yeah, I'll watch. 

Q.   You're coming into a big part of the season for you, the U.S. hard court, defending a title in Cincinnati.   How big is it for you to start playing the way you want to?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's always important to play your best tennis no matter what season or what tournament you're at. 
As I said before, I have a lot of work to do and I'm looking forward to that.   I love those tournaments.   I play every year.   I'm going to work hard to do my best and be better to perform at those.

Q.   Do you have any idea what you expect for yourself?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Do I ever expect anything from myself?   Did you ever hear me, I expect that?   I don't think so. 
I'm going to work hard.   What I expect from myself is to work hard and give my best every single day. 

Q.   After having gone through an injury and coming back, athletes have more of an appreciation when they do that.   Do you have that feeling now?   It was a long stretch to be out. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, no, I'm very happy that I'm playing.   I'm just being very realistic of what I've done today.   After losing a match like this, it's not very satisfying. 
But there are things that I'm happy with.   I just need to look at the things that I need to improve.   That's what I want to focus on, things that I want to improve.   I want to go back to practice like tomorrow, maybe even today.   That's it. 
I'm very motivated.   I'm not taking that as a downer, this match.   I'm going to take it as motivation to be better. 

Q.   Do you feel it will be harder to get back to world No.1 than it was for you to reach it?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't care.   I'm ready to work. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT