AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2014
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/Y. Meusburger
  6‑1, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Didn't seem like much of a workout.   At this stage you're glad to get through?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It was a workout.   It was just a good performance I think from me.   You know, I felt like I started well and I kept that momentum throughout the match, and that's what I wanted to do today. 
So I think sometimes you spend more energy trying to be in that zone, you know, to keep that focus, but I felt good.

Q.   Didn't feel like she didn't test you very much?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I felt that I was doing what I wanted to do.   I think the beginning had quite a few long rallies, but I took advantage of that and I raised my level. 
I'm quite happy with that.   And that I could maintain that throughout the match, that was important for me. 

Q.   Your next opponent is Sloane Stephens.   Last year there was a bit of a controversy.   Talk about your memories of last year. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I have great memories of last year.   That's all I keep for me. 
Sloane is a great player, very tough competitor.   She has a great record here.   I feel like she improved so much. 
So, you know, I'm excited about that match.   It's going to be tough.   It only gets tougher from here.   Every round, you know, is more challenging.

Q.   You haven't played each other since.   Have you spoken with Sloane about it at all?   Has a chat about that match? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   We left it all last year here, and that's what is important for me, you know, is to play another match.   I'm looking forward to that match. 
As I said, she's a great player, and I like to play against great players.   It's a great challenge for me to have.   A tough fourth round, but that's what you get, you know, going further, second week in a Grand Slam. 

Q.   Do you know how much tougher it might be compared to last year?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't know.   I don't really think about what happened in last year.   I know it's going to be a tough match because I feel we both improved. 
So, you know, I'm just looking forward to take that challenge.   It's going to be interesting for me. 

Q.   Have you seen any of her matches at all?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I've seen a few.   As I said, I think she improved a lot.   She proved that she can handle big stages.   She can play against, you know, top players.   So, you know, it's always going to be tough when a player like that knows how to handle themselves. 
So for me, as I said, it's going to be a great challenge.   I'm looking forward to playing against her.   I think she's a great player.   Looking forward to it. 

Q.   What do you think you learned from that semifinal match last year?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Nothing.   I don't know there's anything to learn.   As a match itself, it was good.   I think actually it was my first time playing against Sloane.   I don't think you can take so much out of it because, you know, the year pass by. 
But some things I remember about playing her, so I will try to look at it again and, you know, go from there. 

Q.   Learn anything from the aftermath of that match?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No.   What is there to learn?   I mean, it was just a great experience for me to be playing in the final and winning the title.   That what I learned, I guess, yeah.   Just learn how to win the second Grand Slam. 

Q.   Australian public hasn't quite got your nickname.   A lot of, Go Vicki out there tonight. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I have to confess because Vicki is not my name.   Actually, nobody ever calls me that.   It's Vika or Victoria.   I don't know why it sticks to Vicki.   It's completely different name. 
I think fans are great here.   It's so amazing how loyal they are, especially to Aussies.   Just to watch, it's an amazing atmosphere.   It's just so great.   So I love playing out here.   I can't wait for my next match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT