CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2013
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. PETKOVIC/V. Azarenka
  6‑4, 2‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   You had 15 double faults tonight.   What do you feel was the issue?   Your serve was the story of the match, it seems like.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, you said it all.   It was an awful match and very bad performance from me, so not much to say.  
It happens once, twice a year to every player, and happened to me today.   
   
 Q.   This is your second early exit in a row.   You said coming into this tournament you were feeling a little better when you got here.   Do you think you had some carryover from the illness last week?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't know.   I don't take the last week even as a tournament.   It's hard to judge that, you know, early exit or not early exit.  
If I'm going to be doing it again, I probably should have taken a longer break and just prepare myself.   I don't feel like I was ready to play‑‑ there is no excuse ‑‑ to be 100%, but the preparation wasn't there enough, so I cannot deny that.  
It's just my mistakes for not paying much attention after the US Open how I managed my time and how I managed my health.   I mean, today's match is today's match.   I felt good.   I didn't have any issues, but overall, that comes maybe.   There is no excuses.   
   
 Q.   I'm so sorry about the loss.   My question is:   Do you think it's emotional thing?   Because I was at the court with you, and from what I can tell, you were not very satisfied with all the mumblings.   I'm wondering, what do you say to yourself during the game and are you swearing or...  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   A lot of things.   Really was saying a lot of things.   I'm not going to repeat them in the press conference what I say to myself when I play matches.   It's a very silly question.  
In terms of emotions, yeah there was a lot of emotions and frustration that I let myself get into because I wasn't doing the right thing.   
And with the serve, you know, trying new things, working it during the tournament obviously didn't‑‑ I didn't have enough time.   It was just off rhythm.   There were good parts; there were bad parts.   
Just need time for the consistency.   
   
 Q.   What's wrong with your service?   So many double faults.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I just answered your question.   
   
 Q.   Petkovic looked a little injured late in the second set and was struggling.   Did that mentally take you off your game a little bit?   She looked really bad at some points.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, it's funny nobody brings it up right now, you know, but for me, I don't know, I feel bad for somebody who's feeling bad.   Obviously she was okay in the third set, so I guess she got better.   That's great news.   
   
 Q.   Unfortunately the result is not so good for you in the Asian swing, but I think you still have something to gain in last couple weeks.   Can you just tell us about your experience in Asian swing this season.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   What?   
   
 Q.   The result is not so good for you in Asian swing, like Tokyo and Beijing, but maybe you can tell us something you still gained during last couple weeks.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, you know, one tournament out of the year you cannot just put yourself so much down.   It's one tournament.  
As I said, Tokyo it's tough for me to judge as a bad tournament.   It was just unfortunate.   I cannot ask myself was it a bad performance because of my game.   That doesn't make any sense to me.  
Here it was a bad tournament.   As I said, it happens once, twice a year, those matches, and the important is how you come out of it.   
I'm going to come back, reevaluate, practice more.   I just needed more preparation, and that's what I'm going to get now before the last tournament.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel the story from the night was more your play or something Petkovic did it take you off your game?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   She obviously played really good match.   I have to give her credit, of course.   I just feel from my part there was no execution.   There were too many unforced errors, too many double faults, too many balls going away like this.   
That's my first sign of not having a little bit enough maybe matches, maybe something that I really need to play or practice some more just to convert those mistakes into the lines.  
That's when I play better.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese.   
   
 Q.   Please tell us what kind of adjustment are you supposed to make for the preparation of the WTA final?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   (In English.)   Just usual practices I do.   Just look to the positive.   I have three weeks now, so...  
   
 Q.   My question is:   Do you feel uncomfortable with the bad weather conditions here in Beijing?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   (In English.)   No.   Weather is the same for everybody, so there is no complaints about that.   It's a little smoggy.   It's not the same as everywhere else, but that's what I have to deal with.   
So that's not a factor.   
   
 Q.   In the second set you win 6‑2, and also the opponent called for medical timeout.   At that time did you feel you were close to victory?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   (In English.)   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT