WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2013
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/J. Jankovic 
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever played in a match where there were 23 breaks in 27 games?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, I don't care about that.   As long as I won the match, that's all that matters, and I didn't count.   I noticed it was a lot of breaks, but who really cares?   I think everybody kind of struggles with a serve here for some reason, but whatever.  
   
 Q.   Have you noticed other people, I think‑‑ like today both DelPotro and Li Na were double‑faulting a lot on big points.   Was there something in the air here that's throwing off serves?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't know.   I think it's difficult to catch the timing, I think.   Especially at night, it makes it a little bit more difficult.   During the day, it might be a little bit easier.   
Yeah, something a little bit tough for everybody, I guess.   I thought it was just me, but I noticed that.   I'm not that special.  
   
 Q.   What were the keys today to your win?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think it was important to take chances, you know, on the first two points.   I didn't see Jelena play like that in a while, especially that aggressive.   So it was great to go through that challenge.   I think we haven't played in a while.   
So for both of us was kind of important game to play, but overall, I think we played great tennis.   Really we're stepping up, taking our chances, and great rallies, great returns, obviously, amazing returns.   
Yeah, the movement, I think, was good from both of us.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of movement, you had a lot of interesting reactions after points today.   You were moving a lot.   There were a lot of like gifts that this match made essentially.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I'm sure.   I think, once I start competing more, this somehow comes out.   I never noticed that.   
I actually heard that from my boyfriend for the first time, and he said, Why do you stick your ass out when you play?   I said, well, I don't do that.   He's like, Yeah, you do.   Like what?   He's like, Yeah, you do that, and he was trying to imitate me.   
I really don't notice that when I do that.   It's just reaction.   I know that I don't go forward, so I kind of make fun of myself.   But it's okay.  
   
 Q.   A good montage on the broadcast of like all of them from the match like back to back to back.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I can't wait to see that.   Actually, I'm going to tweet something really funny.   I already thought about it.   So, yeah, just stay tuned.  
   
 Q.   There's some good stuff on the internet already.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, what I want to post is different.  
   
 Q.   We didn't get to talk to you after you played Caroline.   Just curious, where do you think Caroline's form is at right now?   You guys haven't played in a while either.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, because we haven't played in a while, but I've seen a couple of matches where obviously she had a little bit of struggles, some tough losses, even though she was close to win.   
But yesterday I felt like she really played her tennis the way she used to before.   She looks really fit.   So I think maybe was against me, I'm that lucky, but I felt like she was really playing well and being more aggressive, especially in the second set.   
So, yeah, I feel like she's coming up again.  
   
 Q.   What are you most pleased about from the week and even going back to Carlsbad, about your game, kind of after Wimbledon?   Like technically, specifically, serve?   Movement?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Really, serve?  
   
 Q.   I'm throwing it out there.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Thanks.   I think I feel much fitter, actually, than I ever was before.   I think it shows on the court a lot.   
Game‑wise, to me, what's important is to work through those tournaments, to take it as‑‑ you know, not as a practice, it's too out there, but as a preparation for the Open.   That's what I'm trying to do, you know, to try to move more forward and cover my court.   
So I feel like over these last two tournaments, my game is coming more and more together, and that's what is my goal to be that‑‑ to have it together at the US Open.  
   
 Q.   Can players fall out of shape with respect to competing and their ability to compete?   Have you ever felt that?   Like when you come off of a long break, like maybe you had after Wimbledon or something, that it takes a few matches to kind of remember how to‑‑ like tonight you competed very well.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Oh, I think so.   I think it's very personal for everybody.   
You know, obviously, I'm not going to talk like I'm very old or something, but I have spent a few years on the tour.   So I have kind of‑‑ I kind of know the experience.   But I still prefer to play a couple of matches because sometimes when I come back, I'm like, Oh, I missed the shot.   Oh, it's okay.   Next one, it's okay.   Next one.   When I'm really competing, that doesn't happen to me.  
   
 Q.   Serena next, obviously a tough opponent for you.   You did get a win, first one in a while, over her in Del Mar.   Does that match give you more confidence than you've had in past years against her?   And what do you make of what's going to happen tomorrow?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think it's going, as always, just going to be a new match.   We never played here, and we haven't played on hard courts since February.   So it will be interesting to see how we're going to play against each other.   
There's not‑‑ as I said, there's no better challenge than face the best player in the final before a big event.   
So I'm just looking forward to go out there and try to do my best.   Obviously, I want to win, but I'm just going to try to stay in that moment and work on the same things that I've been working and trying to put together throughout this US Open Series.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   You've had two very late night matches, and now you have to turn around for a 4:00 p.m. start.   How are you going to pace yourself?   How are you going to steady yourself for the final tomorrow?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, just rest, eat, get treatment, sleep.   Nothing special.   It's just nothing to do.   It's just a part of recovery‑‑ good food, good massage, good sleep.   That's it.   Mentally to be fresh, mentally to be excited, that's the most important for me.   Then my body follows.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT