WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2013
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the adjustment from clay to grass, it's a short period of time.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's been going pretty good.   I've been here since last Saturday.   You never know until you play a first match, so that's what I'm looking forward to do.   
But, you know, practice as much as possible, and that's it.   
But, I mean, the adjustment I've been doing pretty much every year.   Got a little bit more experience on how to manage that, so things are going well.   
   
 Q.   What is the hardest part of that adjustment?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, the movement you completely change.   You don't slide anymore.   The bounce is low.   You have to kind of change your hitting zone.   You have you shorter points, so you also have to tactically adjust a little bit more and really accept the way that the grass is, to adjust and play and be aggressive.   Sometimes you don't get the bounce that you would expect.   
So all these things you kind of have to put together and work.   But movement I think is the most important.   
   
 Q.   A lot of other top players aren't playing between the French Open and here.   Why don't you want to play the week before?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I never like to play the week before the Grand Slam because I think it's way too long of a period and I would love to only concentrate before a Grand Slam on that.   
The short period of time between French Open, you need some time to recover, to be fresh.   Because once you play the Grand Slam it really takes a lot out of you.   So it's important to be fresh.   
I mean, we all know how to play matches, how to play tennis, so that's not going to probably lose itself.   But it's important to be healthy and fresh.   
   
 Q.   I know you and Serena are great friends on and off the court.   I wondered if you had read any of her comments in Rolling Stone and had any thoughts on that interview?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think it's kind of difficult to avoid that.   It's all over the place.   
So, yeah, I have read her comments.   I don't have any comments on that, though, because I think there is always a benefit of a doubt to a person, what happened really.   Only two people really know what happened.   
I know what it's like to be misunderstood sometimes.   So, I mean, I'm not defending or saying any part of the person.   But, you know, if I need some explanation from somebody, I'll go ask them directly.   
   
 Q.   Having been in the semifinals the last two years, is this more of a mental change for you or a challenge game‑wise?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think it's just a challenge, you know, really.   It's to make that extra step.   I lost twice to, you know, a champion after that.   They were pretty close matches.   
So it's just important to take your opportunities.   First of all, it's important to get there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT