BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2013
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/U. Radwanska
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It seemed like a tough match out there.   You looked pretty relieved to get the win at the end.   Can you talk about it a little bit?   Just looked like you were having a few physical issues out there?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I think it was pretty obvious that, you know, I wasn't feeling that well.   My ankle was bothering me.   It's been bothering me for a while, so it hasn't been really getting better.
But, you know, in the bright side I won the match.   I could overcome those things and manage to ‑ I don't know how ‑ just to pull those opportunities to take these chances in the important moments and really go for my shots, to make that happen, not to wait for her mistake. 
Because at some point I was waiting for her mistake, and I can't do that.   She wasn't missing because she's a very, very consistent player, so I decided to just take everything in my own hands and see where it takes me.

Q.   I know you don't believe in the concept of confidence, but in those moments are you thinking about the hard work you're putting in on the courts or your winning streak?   What are you tapping into? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I never think about winning streak.   I have big self‑belief.   I just know the things that I have to do, you know, and it will sometimes not work out.
But if I have good intentions, I have a good mindset and know exactly what to do, you know, the outcome is not that important for me.   It's important to make sure that I do the right thing.

Q.   Is the ankle something that is just niggling and you know you can play through, or is it something day to day and might be something to force you to pull out?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I'm not going to give any answer of pulling out, that's for sure.   I'm going to do everything I can to be ready for my next match and fight as hard as I can. 
There's no doubt about that.
Q.   Do you have a little bit of a cold, too, maybe? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   (Smiling) I'm not sounding really sexy right now, eh? 

Q.   Is it muscle or bone with your ankle?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I have no idea yet.
Q.   Have you been to the doctor?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I have my team with me.   We're still trying to figure it out.

Q.   No MRI or anything like that?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Not yet.

Q.   But soon?   Before your next match?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Maybe.   Maybe. 

Q.   So you want to talk about playing Caroline?   Last time you played her was two years ago here and you had to retire, and then I think before that Tokyo 2010.   So it's been a long time, no?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, but she didn't win yet. 

Q.   I will ask you about Petrova after.
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Oh, okay.   I haven't played Caroline, as you said, in a while.   And not that our games have changed tremendously, but over these last two years a lot of things happened.   A lot.
But I think she's a terrific player, you know.   She knows how to play big matches and she knows to bring the A game when it's needed.   If I play her, it will be definitely an interesting challenge.   I will never look back into any of our previous matches.   I will never look back into any previous opponent. 
That's not only particular to her, but we'll see. 

Q.   In a sense, though, when you're playing someone you have to know their strengths and weaknesses, no? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, of course you do.   I think we know each other pretty well by now, and it's not like it's going to be a huge surprise out there for either one of us.

Q.   Can you talk about Petrova?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think that is a very dangerous opponent because sometimes she can play absolutely incredible; sometimes she doesn't play that well.   Against me she always play incredible, so I don't expect anything less than from her. 
I expect her to come out, if she wins, firing her shots with a big serve, with big, heavy groundstrokes. 
So either player who is going to be out there is going to be very different style of game, but is going to be both tough matches.
Quarterfinals is never easy.

Q.   I remember when you two were coming up.   You and Caroline used to play some doubles and stuff.   Would you you say you two are still pretty close?   How is your relationship with Caroline these days?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Our relationship is fine.   I mean, we don't maybe hang out as much.   She's busy.   She has a boyfriend, you know, and I'm busy, too.
But, you know, the hanging out part a little bit shifted, but I still consider her as a very good friend of mine.   You know, I see her all the time when I'm in Monaco, and that's it.   I really like her as a girl.

Q.   Do you ever practice together?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't really practice with many people.   I like to hit with my coach because he can never beat me.   (Laughter.)
Q.You have had your share of physical issues like any top player through the years.   How much satisfaction do you take out of getting through matches like this when your body is not necessarily 100% or doing what you want it to do?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It just gives you a little bit of, you know, pleasure in a way, because when you are feeling great and everything is there, it makes it ‑‑it makes it easier.   It makes it sometimes a little bit boring, but ‑ not boring in the way that it's boring to play ‑ but you kind of expect to win when you play well.
But when you have issues, when you don't play well and you can win still, that's what excites most players because you find a way to win matches.
Doesn't matter how is it pretty, its not pretty.   As long as it's a W next to my name, I'm happy with it.

Q.   Going back to Caroline, when play her, what are the particular challenges that she offers?   Is it her consistency?   Is it her placement?   Her movement? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think she's very consistent player and she reads the game well, anticipates a lot of shots, and, you know, I don't ever really try to focus on my opponent's game. 
I try to focus on what I have to do and execute my shots.   And whatever comes at me, I'm going to deal with what I have to do next.   So I don't try to adapt.   I just try to apply my game.

Q.   How much better are you than two years ago here?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Matt, you judge me all the time.   I'll leave it to you. 

Q.   How about if you answer.   How much better do you think you are?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't know.   I hope I'm better.   From 1 to 10? 

Q.   Percentage.   Clearly you have gone to No. 1.   You have won two slams. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Maybe 50%. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT