BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2013
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/K. Flipkens
  3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You looked like you were sort of, you know, limping or had an issue out is there.   What was going on?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I wasn't feeling very well today, but it didn't really put too much impact on what happened before.   It definitely didn't help, but I don't like to find something that was bothering me. 
I would just rather look forward what can I improve for tomorrow.   Whatever happened in the first set is not going to happen tomorrow.

Q.   What was actually wrong?   You say you weren't feeling well. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't know.   Just wanted to go to sleep instead of playing tennis.   (Smiling.)
I couldn't breathe, and I was too stupid not to use a tissue, so simple as that.   But I mean, she really played well.   I have to give her credit.   She came out, you know, firing, playing, you know, so freely and going for every possible shot there was.
So I just didn't adjust well.   I didn't take my chances, and I was too blurry in what I had to do. 

Q.   Is this going to be a concern for tomorrow, your health, or do you feel it's just... 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't know.   I mean, we'll see.   It's no reason to think about it right now.   It's just important to go get rest.   I'm going to get treatment as usual, and come out and do my best tomorrow.   That's all I can ask for.
But how I'm going to feel tomorrow, I can only tell you tomorrow.

Q.   Is this something you felt coming on the last few days or just today?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't know.   The last two days, I mean, my voice is a little weird.   I sound like ridiculous.

Q.   Besides your health issues, how much fun are you having right now with your winning and continuing to move on in all these tournaments?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I'm really happy that I find the ability to turn around my matches no matter of what the circumstances are on the court. 
So that's definitely what is excite me the most.   The game, you know, the shots, it's so not important when you can turn around with your mentality, with your physical ability, because shots is just shots.   Everybody can hit shots.
But to know when to take your opportunities, when to do the thing, is definitely learning experience.   I'm glad I'm starting to master that. 

Q.   How were you able to flip it tonight?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I just blow out my nose, started breathing better and came down and started to see what I had to do, because before that I was ‑‑I was kind of blinded. 

Q.   Any particular problem with your ankle?   There was tape.   Did you injure yourself? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I had an injury before in Dubai, and so it's still a bit there.   But it's not an excuse.   It's just something that I have to deal with.   I mean, everybody sometime hurts something, so just keep going. 

Q.   What went through your mind beginning of the second set?   How did you turn it around?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't even know.   I mean, I think about weirdest things when I'm on the court.   I think about a movie, I think about, I don't know, what my nephew is doing.   I watched a video before, he was juggling and all stuff.
Whatever pops in my head.   It's not like, what am I going to do right now when I'm sitting on the changeover, or I lost this game because made this mistake.   I don't analyze that way, because I analyze ‑‑ when I do mistakes, on the changeovers and this time, it's just whatever comes to my head.

Q.   Should we assume you're as confident now as you've ever been now when you walk on the tennis court because of your success?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think confidence is overrated always.

Q.   Really?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, because you don't win by confidence.   You win by your action.   You win by finding what you have to do in particular moment.
Confidence is just a word for me out there that ‑‑ it does exist, I think.   You know, the way you position yourself, the way you carry yourself, but it's not real to me. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on the next match?   What are your expectations?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I never really have expectations.   I just try to go out there and do my job as best as I can. 
Tomorrow I think it's going to be an interesting match.   I haven't played Urszula in a long time.   I only played her once.   She's a very talented player and I think she's improved her game a lot, so obviously here she's been showing some very good results in the past.
So it's going to be difficult, and I have to come up with my best game.   I'm sure she will, too.   We'll battle.

Q.   How did you do against her the last time?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I won.

Q.   In general, was it an easy match or was it... 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't remember much, but I think it was quite close two sets.   Yeah.   I just remember which court we played on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT