SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 22, 2013
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Victoria had to withdraw with a right foot injury.   
   
 Q.   What happened this morning?   How did things transpire?   You obviously made the decision at some point.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, the decision was really hard to make, but it's ‑‑I mean, in one case it was really hard to make.   In the other case it was really obvious what the decision was couple days ago already.  
It's just I wanted to give my 100% possibility to play, and today was my last test.   It's just, you know, the last two days I tried to practice on it, which did not get better.   Just got to a point where I kind of stopped at Indian Wells.   
So it just gives me a very obvious indication that it's not possible for me to play.  
   
 Q.   So when you got out there this morning, you could tell right away that it wasn't...   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I could have said that, you know ‑‑yesterday already was for sure, but I wanted to make sure that‑‑ you know, 100% to be sure that I won't be able to participate, because I was really looking forward to play the tournament.  
I feel like I'm in a good tennis shape, not physical shape right now.   But I felt, even though I didn't feel very good physically, I played well in Indian Wells, and, you know, still won three matches pretty good.  
I mean, I have to be smart.  
   
 Q.   How long do you think it takes you to come back for the next tournament?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Honestly, I have no idea right now.   In Indian Wells I heard that two, three weeks' possibility.   
Obviously I don't have that time here, so I feel like I took a step back with my recovery trying to play here and trying to push.  
So it probably will go back to the two weeks maybe.   Maybe less.   We will see how the progress.   The progress was better than the doctor said, but it wasn't enough.  
   
 Q.   When you have to withdraw, do you think about the disappointment of the fans that came out to see you?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, of course I do.   I'm really, really sad that I don't have an opportunity to play here.   I love playing here.   I won two times, and I had great results here all the time.   I have very good memories.  
I think the tournament is incredible.   You know, the competitive‑‑ all the field is here.   Of course I'm very disappointed and for the fans, as well.  
I cannot not take into consideration my health.   I tried everything I could, but I couldn't ‑‑it's sport.   That's part of an unfortunate part of our job.  
   
 Q.   As of now, what's your next scheduled tournament?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Right now on the schedule is Monterrey, but I have no ‑‑I have not made my decision on that.  
   
 Q.   Do you know exactly when you decided and what went through your mind?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   When I decided to not play here?   
   
 Q.   Right, yeah.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I went ‑‑well, the first I came here on Sunday.   I tried to play on Wednesday for the first time after Indian Wells, and the next day my foot got a little bit worse.  
I tried to play again yesterday and it got a little bit worse again.   Today it got worse again during the play.  
So yesterday I thought that, you know, possibly I'm not going to be able to play.   Today I went on the court and I got more pain.   I cannot really move.   
It makes me very frustrated that I'm not able to do what I'm capable to do on the tennis court.  
So, you know, and in the longer term looking ahead to the season, you know, to the big ‑‑to also the biggest targets, I have to be smart not to keep this coming and keep it coming like a snowball, you know.   It's getting better and then it gets worse.   
I want to get rid of it, and then I can play on it and, you know, do the best job as I can pain‑free.  
   
 Q.   Aside from the injury, how much are you looking forward to the clay court season and especially Roland Garros and the opportunity there?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Very much looking forward.   Right now it's just, you know, it's time to associate ‑‑to evaluate what I need to do to make sure I'm prepared.   
I'm going to have a longer preparation than usual for my clay season.   My biggest target is going to be French Open, so I'm going to do everything I can to be ready, and, you know, to make sure that I come in in the best form there and try to win the title.  
   
 Q.   You had such good results this year.   Assuming you're healthy, how much do you like your chances at Roland Garros?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I never rate my chances.   I always do the job.   To rate, it's predictions. It's not for a player to do.   It's for journalists, for people, for fans.  
   
 Q.   How should we rate your chances?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   How what?   
   
 Q.   How should we rate your chances at Roland Garros?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   How should you rate?   (Laughter.)   Well, I think there is going to be two tournaments before that on clay.   You will see me play and then everybody will make their own decisions.  
   
 Q.   How much does the injury worry you long term, if at all?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, it kind of does because, you know, I really wanted to play here, and it takes me longer than what I want to do.   So, you know, and I don't want to stop.   I want to keep playing.  
So that is very frustrating part that you cannot ‑‑you're taken out of something that you love to do and something that I'm looking forward to do every day.  
So that's the most frustrating part.   But I have a great team around me that definitely are going to do a good job.   I have no doubt about that.  
We'll see.   I have a little bit of time to prepare, and I will take the necessary time for me to get rid of this problem and move on to the next chapter.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT