QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2013
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/R. Oprandi
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you just talk to us about the match and how tough was it playing in the conditions like this?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, it wasn't easy, for sure, but you never want to take this as an excuse because it's the same for both players.
You know, I think she's a very tricky opponent, especially in those conditions.   You know, when you haven't played a match, it can be a little bit tricky, as well.
I'm glad I could turn around.   I felt like it was a little bit of a slow start for me.   I started to go too much for my shots at the beginning.   Then I started to be more patient, work more the points.   Got me more into the game and started to play much better.

Q.   To be able to come back from 2‑0 and adjust from the conditions, that must feel good. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Definitely.   I never want to underestimate my opponent.   I think she's very talented girl, and you could see, you know, she's kind of a flashy player, a little bit.   If you don't put enough pressure on her, don't put her in the situation she doesn't like, she will go for her shots and make you a little bit crazy on the court and change the rhythm.
So it was important to just try to stay on top of her, not to let her play her game that she likes.

Q.   I think you guys had a match in French Open a couple of years ago when she won. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Against who? 

Q.   Against Romina. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No.   No.   I don't remember that.   Did it happen? 

Q.   I think so, yeah.   I just read it before I came in here. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't remember that.   I think I lost to her very long time ago.   It was in Croatia, actually. 

Q.   Do you remember anything from that?   How different was it?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, I don't remember.   It was long time ago.

Q.   I think you play Christina McHale next.   Can you just tell us how you look ahead to that match and how you think of her game?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't think I played against Christina in a real match before.   We played an exhibition or something once. 
I think she's a very talented girl.   She has a great game and coming up, has a good serve, good forehand.   It's going to be a tough battle.   I'm looking forward to playing against her. 

Q.   I know you had part of your off‑season here in Doha?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah.

Q.   Obviously you're familiar with the city and you like coming here.   Can you just tell me about why you decided to come here in your off‑season and what you think about it. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I have been coming here to play, and I really like the facility.   You know, I think that the Federation put out such a great facilities here.   Everything is so close together.   It's so convenient.   Especially during off‑season, that's what you're looking for, to have one place where you have it all.
I thought about it, and it is on the way to Australia, and I have a great relationship with people here.   So I'm always welcome.   It was the first choice.

Q.   On court you were mentioning the word "patience."   I know this is a recurring theme.   Seems like you're becoming increasingly patient.   Maybe two or three years ago you may have reacted differently, being down or the wind being so bad.   What do you think?   Do you kind of walk away from that experience, you kind of settle down and dominate? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I mean, I don't think about what would have happened two or three years ago, how I would react.   There is no point.   I mean, I relive those moments.   I don't make those moments or anything define me as the player I am today.
I just try to react on the situation, react on what's coming at me.   That's pretty much it. 
I mean, I'm glad that I could turn it around.   But I have done quite a few matches in the past like that, and, you know, it's important to bring out your best game.   Not maybe at the first point but when it's really needed.
That's I feel like the key for the top players that they know how to step it up.

Q.   You have been playing pretty good today.   Do you think there is a specific sector of your game that you could improve drastically?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   From today? 

Q.   Yeah, from today. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I think ‑‑ you know, I'm such a perfectionist, always look to improve everything, you know, movement, hitting the ball, and I was few times a little bit frustrated.   I missed a few easy shots.
It was due to, you know, not being maybe sometimes focused enough.   Being in the first match, you sometimes don't feel like you're in the tournament.   So, you know, it's going to change definitely for my next match.
But I'm looking forward to just elevate my game from match to match and keep improving through the tournament, through the rest of the year, and just always make one step towards my goal.

Q.   I was wondering if you follow the other matches during the tournament?   Do you get to watch, for example, Serena, how she did, or Maria?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I watch sometimes.   But I spend too much time on the Internet instead of TV.   I don't watch much TV.     (Smiling.)

Q.   Is it fair to say you're a player that's not particularly bothered by the wind?   You had good results in Miami, and that's probably one of the worst places for wind. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, there is a lot of places with the wind.   I feel like here always can be tricky because we play at night. 
Miami, yeah, it can be a hurricane.   (Smiling.)
I don't know.   I just try to adjust.   I don't think that my game, you know, particular suits wind because I try to, you know, be aggressive and hit the ball.   In the wind you have to play around more.
But I feel like I adjust well to the situation and the consequences that comes with it.   So that's something I work on, not being frustrated in those situations.

Q.   So we have been talking about music yesterday with some of the players.   You're the next one.   We are talking about the British boys band One Direction.   Serena says she's too old for that. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   She's too old for that? 

Q.   Yeah.   But she likes Justin Bieber.   I would like your opinion about it.   About what you think about the British band?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, I'm really surprised you're the one who is asking, being a French person, asking about the British band.   (Smiling.)
You know, music changed a lot for me over the last couple of months, so I'm really paying attention to some lyrics, and, you know, it feels like they're always crying about something, you know, or they're all partying together.
I think they have amazing voices, that's for sure.   But lyrics are not my first choice, I would say.

Q.   Do you have a favorite member?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Favorite member? 

Q.   I want to know that. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't follow them so closely.   I actually prefer the other band, the British band, the young ones, The Wanted.   I prefer them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT