QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2013
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/C. McHale
  6‑0, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a pretty amazing performance.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the match and just, you know, how you felt out there.   You kind of talked a little bit about ‑‑you said just dominance.   Seemed like everything was working.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah.   I felt like I came out very focused and really with a good mindset, with a good game plan.  
There were a few close games, you know, and I felt like I was really taking advantage of every opportunity I had, which didn't allow her to play her game.  
That was the key for me, to not let her play her game, because she's a very good mover, very good grinder.  
She has a big weapon that can come from anywhere with a forehand.   I was really focused and determined to do my job well and stay aggressive, not to let her dictate the point.  
   
 Q.   Apparently the conditions are tough but they didn't seem to bother you too much.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Not today.   (Smiling.)  
Yeah, I mean, the conditions are tough, but I adjusted pretty well.   I was not looking to adjust really to conditions, you know.   I was just trying to execute my shots and go for the right play and not thinking if it's gonna, you know, blow away or it's gonna stop.   Just really trying to focus on the ball and keep moving my feet well.   
   
 Q.   Today is Valentine's Day.   Did you celebrate it?   Did you receive some gift?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, I didn't celebrate.   I'm alone on this day.  
   
 Q.   No text messages from anyone?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, text messages, that's the only gifts I get.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Who was that from?   Anyone special you want to share with us?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   A lot of ‑‑actually a lot of people, you know.   
   
 Q.   Any electro‑dance musicians or...   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Musician, yeah, one in particular one, too, but it's still early in the States.  
   
 Q.   If you had one wish, which gift would you like to have for the Valentine's Day?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Wow.   That's a long list.   (Smiling.)  
I don't know.   I would just love to be, honestly right now, I would love to be with my family and my friends.   That's the most important gift for me, to just share those moments and be together.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you take one match at a time and are focused in a match, but in a performance like that, does that send a message to the other top seeds here that you're here to defend this title?   I mean, is a double bagel like that sending a message to the other guys that I'm not going to let this title go easily?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, maybe not that kind of message.   I don't think ‑‑I never actually send this message to myself to defend a title.   I'm here to win the title, you know, try to, as you said, one match at a time and just be very determined.  
I'm always serious when I step on the court, and I'm not there to joke around.   When I step on the court, I'm all in.   
   
 Q.   When you come out of like last year, you came out of a win in Melbourne, do you feel that just you're on a wave, unstoppable?   Is that the feeling after?   Because you won here last year.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah.   There is no such thing as really unstoppable, because, you know, sooner or later it's gonna happen to everybody.   
But I'm here to win every match I try to go on court.   That's the mentality.   And the numbers of how many will be, it just depends of doing the best job as possible every single day and giving your best.   
So that's the only thing I can ask for myself.  
   
 Q.   Would you like to beat the streak that you had last year?   Would that mean something to you?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It would, yeah, but I mean, it's not really in my mind to beat that, to beat the statistics.  
I never look to beat statistics, never really look to beat records.   I'm looking to win.   This is the most important.   And then whatever comes with it, comes with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT