BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 31, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I'm really happy to be back.   It's been a while since I came to Brisbane.   I had very good memories from here and actually from Australia.   I couldn't wait to be back in this part of the world. 
Can't wait until the start of the tournament.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, it's a trick question there.   I don't know about affecting.   For me, everywhere I go I try to focus day by day and not look too far ahead. 
It's just the beginning, so I just try to focus on being prepared 100% for my first match.
From there, you know, I'll be just keep rolling like I always do.   The rest of the season, the season is so long.   You don't want to think too much ahead. 
So right now I just take it day by day as usual.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, media‑wise definitely.   You know, it's expected I think from anybody who comes as a defending champion. 
But I'm here to win the tournament, not to defend really anything.   There are 128 girls, and I'm really looking forward to that challenge and that, you know, competition.   The feeling I had last year, I would love to repeat that. 

Q.   What has changed for you off‑court?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   What changed for me off court? 

Q.   Yes. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Honestly, not too much from my side.   From people's side, you know, there is more tension.   There is more activities for me to do.   But it comes with the job, you know.
I'm really glad to have that opportunity to be able to do all those activities.   Sometimes it can be a little bit overwhelming, tiring, but you have to always think about not only tennis side but part of the business side, being a good role model for the fans, and for people to also have a little bit a part of you.
So it can be tiring, but I'm really excited.   You know, I'm very blessed to have that opportunity. 

Q.   (Question regarding activities being distracting.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It can be distracting, but for me it's enjoyable.   My priority is always tennis, so this will be always something I will do first and then I will try to do as much as I can off court.
In terms of distraction, it's up to you, really.   I do enjoy everything I do.   I try to have fun in every activity I do. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't really look at it that way.   I try to look at what can I do to win those titles, not to see who I can stop from winning those titles.
So it's not a question.   It's really obvious that she is one of the toughest competitors for me.   I don't have a great record. 
But this is a new year, and there are new opportunities to have.   So US Open was a great match.   I had great things that I could take out of there.   It's always a learning experience. 
But answering to your question, I look towards myself more than trying to stop somebody. 

Q.   What did you do in the off‑season?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I actually traveled quite a bit.   I started back home in Belarus a little bit.   My fitness coach came.   We started practicing there. 
I went to Monaco, my second home, and then flew all the way to Brazil for an exhibition against Serena. 
And then i went to Doha.   I've been preparing in Doha after that.   So all the way around the world pretty much.
I just came yesterday from Thailand where I played an exhibition. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well see tomorrow.   I feel good, yes.   I can't wait to play. 
But, yeah, my off‑season was great.   It actually went by really quick.   Normally it's more ofa ‑‑ it's a little bit more tough mentally when you have to start all over. 
But it was really quick and it was very enjoyable for me. 

Q.(Question regarding her preparation and any changes.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, it's the same preparation, really, because I don't see the point to really change something because I've done well.   That obviously helped me to achieve those wins, so I don't think I'll be changing much. 

Q.(Question regarding Samantha Stosur.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know what?   I don't normally fancy any chances because I feel like it's not part of my job.   Doesn't really matter what I think.   I like to watch and enjoy the tennis, to see.   It's interesting to see after a while that‑‑ I haven't watched tennis really, so it would be different to start watching tennis again and get into the competition.
I think Sam is one of the top athletes.   She's playing at home.   She has a lot of support here.   I'm sure she's going to be good. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Thank you, but I never look at the draw, so please don't ask me.   I only look into my opponent, okay?   Thank you.   I never look. 
As I was saying at the beginning, I always take it day by day.   I don't look too much in the future, because before you take action in the present there is no future. 
So that's my approach.   Sorry about that. 

Q.   (Question regarding the women's game.)
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, I truly believe that women's tennis is the highest competition right now.   We have a lot of girls who on any given day can win a title and beat each other.   So I think that's very exciting for the public to see.
It's exciting for us, for the players, you know, because it gives an extra motivation knowing that, Hey, I have to work hard, because if I don't, there is somebody that's going to take my spot.
For me personally, I have a lot of, you know, excitement for women's competition because I know that I have to always be there. 
About the men's side, yeah, it's been dominant for a long time.   But you also can't blame those guys.   They're absolutely amazing.
But on the women's perspective I feel it's their best game right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT