CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/E. Vesnina
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Can you talk about Vesnina's game a little bit today. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I was, you know, a little bit surprised ‑‑well, not really surprised, but I didn't expect her to be that aggressive.   You know, I know she's always, you know, trying to take control, but she was really going for, you know, every shot there was today.
She was pretty successful, I have to say.   It was quite challenging, you know, in a few rallies to kind of turn it around and be aggressive, be demanding, be controlling.   It was a little bit of a challenge today, for sure. 

Q.   So were there any parts of your game today that you feel you can improve for next time?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Against her, or... 

Q.   No, for your next match. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Next match?   Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.   I think there are always things you can improve from every match.   You know, I felt like I could have been a little bit more aggressive today and just to take opportunities when I had them a little bit better, not hesitate a little bit too much.
I felt like we showed some good tennis.   You know, it was important to stay with her, and when I needed to come up with my best tennis, I did. 
It wasn't maybe as consistent as I wished it would be today. 

Q.   After the match you looked pretty relieved.   During the match you were getting frustrated.   Can you kind of express in words your emotions after the match?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't feel like I was getting really frustrated during the match.   I wasn't happy with some things, but these kind of emotions just hold you in the game, you know, to try to push yourself forward, not to really get down. 
For me, sometimes it helps to be more alert, to be more aggressive after.   So I was just not happy sometimes, you know, because it wasn't going my way.   But I felt like it was a really long game, you know, a lot of tension in that last game. 
I really wanted to win it, because I had a few match points and really couldn't convert them.   So when I won that last point, I was relieved, and, you know, happy to finish the match in two sets.

Q.   I couldn't tell, but at the very end of the match, by your bench you threw something into the stands.   What was that?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Sorry, what? 

Q.   Right after the match, you went to your bench and you threw a couple of things into the stands. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Towels.

Q.   Just towels? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah. 

Q.   Can you talk about your next match in the quarters, please?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I just found out I'm playing against Oprandi.   I think she's a very talented and very tricky opponent who doesn't really give you any rhythm.   She's really creative.   She has great hands.
It seems like she plays always really relaxed and really loose.   So you never know what to expect from that kind of player.
I feel like it's always very important to be focused on yourself and try to execute your shots and thinking of‑‑ you know, to be focused on every ball because you know that, you know, that's going to be coming every time something different, so you have to be ready for it.
We played a couple of times.   We played in Wimbledon, but I feel like it's going to be a completely different game here.   I'm really looking forward, you know, to that match.   She's obviously showing some great tennis, reaching the quarterfinals of such a big event.   You know, it's going to be a tough one. 

Q.   (In Chinese.)   Prior to the press conference, we are told that we can only ask a question which is related to the tournament.   Can you tell me what had happened behind?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I have no idea.

Q.   Prior to this press conference, all the reporters said that they can only ask the question which is related to the match.   They're not allowed to ask any question which is not relevant to the tournament.   Can you tell us what's happening behind?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Behind what?   What do you want to know? 

Q.   Actually, before the press conference, all the reporters are told that actually we can only ask a question related to the tournament. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I guess it's not really a question to me because I had nothing to do with that.   I just come here and answer your guys' questions. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT