CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/M. Bartoli
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   You're not positive with a lot of errors.   Are you going to try to improve your performance later on?   Second question, in WTA there were some female players who have achieved the No. 1 spot on both singles and doubles.   Will this be the goal for you in the next season?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, first question, I don't know how to answer really.   I don't know how many mistakes I did, honestly.   I'm not trying to focus on that.   I try to take the positive out of the match.   
Of course you always look on something that you can improve, but, you know, with the type of game that we had today, it wasn't easy not to make mistakes because it was, you know, very high intensity, a lot of, you know, shots you were going for.  
So it was either a winner or mistakes.   That's something that, you know, the game style that was on the court today.  
And the second question, I didn't really understand, really.   Can you please repeat it?   Something about No. 1, No. 2 before, but I didn't understand the sense of the question.   Can you please repeat it?   
   
 Q.   Regarding doubles, are you going to strive for No. 1?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't think I played doubles this year, and I was trying to focus on my singles.   I feel like with this crazy schedule, you know, it's a little bit difficult for me to participate in both events.   
But I love to play doubles.   I got, I don't know, maybe to No. 7 in the world, so I think that's a pretty good achievement.   But maybe later on, if, you know, if I will play doubles, I will definitely target that.   
   
 Q.   Actually in China Open this year you have a very good performance.   In the past, you withdraw from the match quite a lot, but in this year, you didn't withdraw and you have a very good performance.   What kind of change did you have physically and mentally?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, the past years has been unfortunate for me, you know, because I got few injuries, and towards the end of the year it happens.   I was lucky I didn't have anything too serious that I could participate later on, but it was definitely frustrating part not to be able to compete in such a big event towards the end of year or two.  
So I'm really excited, you know, to have opportunity that, you know, I'm healthy here, which wasn't really the case the week before.   I did the best I could, you know, to raise my level to make sure that I give myself an opportunity to play well.   So I'm really excited about that.   
But it's difficult to talk about the past, because I always try to look in the future and the present.   You know, I just take the positive out of that time, you know, that I'm really happy to be sitting here and playing in the final tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I want to ask that in US Open you played versus Sharapova, which is very much excellent.   This final, you're supposed to play against her again.   What's your comment on the final?   The second question is:   No players have already got two titles of the crown events since 2009.   Do you think you have the potential to break this record?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, the first question, yeah, I think we had an excellent match, you know, in US Open.   It was really close.   You know, it was that stage of a tournament also that both of us really wanted to win.   It was competitive.  
Tomorrow is going to be another case, you know, fighting for the title.   It's always, you know, you give it all.   In the final, anything can happen.   Maria is an excellent player.   She's a huge fighter.   We all know that.   
She's a very tough opponent to play, but honestly, to have somebody like her in the final, it's a privilege, you know, to have that challenge and you expect the best players to be in the final.  
So I feel like it's a great opportunity for me, you know, to play against her and also for the fans to watch.   
And the second question, I keep losing it, sorry, what was the second question?   Something about the two titles?   
   
 Q.   Ever since 2009 no player has ever got two titles or above in the crown‑level tournament.   So the potential...   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You mean the Premier Tournaments, you mean?   Yeah, it's a great opportunity, but I don't really look at the records many times.   
For me, tomorrow is important to go out on the court and give it all, try to win the match and hopefully to capture my first China Open.   Then I'll think about the Premier Events and whatever.   I'm just really happy, you know, that I could make it this far, and I have one more push which I'm really excited to go out and perform.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   So this year was very, very lucky for you.   So you have the Grand Slam and win the Olympics in mixed doubles, and now you're making so good here in China Open.   What will be your motivation for the next year?   What do you want to achieve next year, next season on court and maybe out of court?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Oh, well, I wouldn't call my year lucky, first of all.   It's too early‑‑ I feel like it's way too early to think about next year.   Right now I'm really looking forward, you know, to play here and then Istanbul and have my vacation.  
So that's the most I'm looking forward.   But the motivation is huge, you know.   This year has been, you know, a dream year for me.   You know, I captured the titles I have been dreaming about since I started to play tennis and those feelings that you have when you win such   big titles is just incredible.   It's undescribable.   So I definitely want to have them again.   
Next year we have another four Grand Slams and a lot of other tournaments.   We will be back here next year as well.   All of those titles feel good for me.   
   
 Q.   It's kind of an awkward period for the whole tennis season right now, because we have four Grand Slams finished but the season keeps going.   So I'm wondering how you players manage to keep the momentum going in this period.   You said you're looking forward to vacation.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I feel like when you know that you went through the season and you gave it all, so it's always the end of the season you want to do as well as you did in the beginning of the season, so you feel satisfied, you feel like you didn't give up, you didn't, you know, just slack the time.   
For me, every time I step on the court, I'm giving 100%.   I try to be the best player I can be.   It's never fun to lose, so motivation is there to win every match I go.   No matter where the tournaments are ‑ I feel there are some probably, I feel maybe a little bit more important or bigger the occasions‑ but every time I step on the tennis court I want to win.   So motivation is there.   
It's maybe difficult from day to day, but, you know, I love the feeling of winning and, you know, being out there in front of the crowd is also, you know, something that I wake up every day for.   
   
 Q.   Marion said earlier that she considers your serve return is one of the best on tour.   Actually, she says you are the best on tour.   Do you consider it's your biggest weapon on court?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, thanks to Marion for that.   I don't know.   I don't really think about who's better.   I feel like I have always been returning pretty well.   
I would say it's one of my weapons, but it's not something that I really work for.   I guess it's just natural for me, and, I don't know, I'm lucky, I guess.   
   
 Q.   So during the US Open you were pretty tight with Redfoo from LMFAO.   What was your response to them breaking up?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Oh.   (Smiling.)   I'm not sure that I should be answering that because I don't think that they broke up because they weren't really a couple.   
   
 Q.   The band broke up.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I think they are just taking their own solo careers and that's fair enough.   I guess they'll figure it out.   They're big boys.   
   
 Q.   In the previous two big stages matches between you and Maria this season, the Australian Open and also the US Open, you won twice.   So what would you attribute to those victories?   How much help did you gain from those previous victories to help you get ready for the final here?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I think, you know, there is no secret really tomorrow.   Maria and I just know each other really well.   I know how she plays; she knows how I play.   It's going to be a matchup with not too many surprises.   It's just going to be a battle.  
We also played in Stuttgart, you know, and she beat me there.   So we are definitely always really competitive.  
I feel like it's going to be a different match because every time we play, you know, the momentum changes and it's different courts, different places, so I feel like it's going to be a different match.  
I'm sure she's going to be really, really motivated, as I am, so I'm just looking forward to a good battle, and I'm sure it's going to be a tough one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT