CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/A. Cornet
  6‑1, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   I think it was the middle of the second set I noticed you stopped the match for a second.   There was something with your eye?   Can you maybe tell us what that was.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Oh, yeah, what's the name of ‑‑mosquito.   I saw it coming right in my eye, and it was so quick I didn't have time to stop it.   It was just a little bit uncomfortable.   I had to get it out of my eye, and I couldn't see where it is.   
   
 Q.   After the first game, losing that one, I guess, what was your mindset?   Were you surprised or did you expect it to be a tougher match throughout after that?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   If I was surprised by what, sorry?   
   
 Q.   Dropping the first game and, you know, your responding to that.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Oh, well, I think I responded pretty well after dropping that game.   You know, first game doesn't really tell the story.   Just the beginning.   
It was important to kind of feel the atmosphere.   I hadn't really been practicing at all.  
I knew when I come out there I will not be playing perfect or I will not, you know, execute maybe my shots as good as I could or did before.   So I was just trying to find the rhythm and go for my shots, to feel right away the aggressivity.   
She started well, so I bounced right back really well.   I started to be more focused, more precise after that, and, you know, it started working my way.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel okay since Tokyo?   I guess you're great now.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I feel much better, which is, you know, everything I could ask for is to feel better physically.  
So still, you know, maybe not perfect as usual, but I can't complain.  
   
 Q.   What is your objective of this last part of your season now for you, your goal now?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   My goal?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, for the last of the season.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   The goal is to finish the year, you know, as strong as possible, the same way that I started; you know, to be consistent, to have, you know, good results and still in that last period of time that we have during this year to improve myself as a player and step it up, you know.   
We have a few more weeks that, you know, just try to keep the focus, keep the motivation up, and hopefully, you know, physically will allow me to show my best tennis.   I'm really excited to finish the year on a strong note.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of Cornet's game today?   Even though the score was pretty lopsided, it seemed like she made you make some tough shots.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I know she's a good grinder, so she's going to make you hit a lot of shots and going to try to make you travel.   That's her game.   She has two different sides where she hits.  
You know, we had some good rallies, but I felt like I was constructing the point really well to find my opportunities to be aggressive and step in.  
You know, she played the way I kind of expected her to play, you know, to try to make me, you know, stay back and hit a lot of balls.  
I just feel like I executed well and played my game not to allow her to do that to me.   
   
 Q.   You got a pretty easy win today.   Can you share with us your plan for the rest of the day, what you are going to do?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I don't know how long I'll spend more with you guys, but after, you know, it's all about recovery.   You know, the life of a tennis player is not maybe as exciting as it seems sometimes because you have to make sure that you're ready for your next match and you have to rest and get some treatment, some massage.   
So I'm going to do an autograph session after here.   So for a little bit, you know, I think it's important to spend some time with the fans because they're all waiting and watching all day.  
But after that, back to the hotel, getting ready for tomorrow, maybe, you know...   
   
 Q.   Not going out for dinner?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Actually, we have really good buffet in the hotel.  
   
 Q.   InterContinental?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah.   It's great, you know.   There is a lot of food.   You can eat, you know, for four hours as much as you want.   (Laughter.)  
Q.Winning the Masters in Istanbul could be a real dream for you?   I don't know if you really enjoy that.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You mean to win?   
   
 Q.   The Masters.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Oh, yeah.   Well, of course it's, you know, one of the, you know, most important events also of the year because we all play the whole year, you know, trying to chase the points and to make it to this last one.  
It's so prestigious.   You know, there's only eight players, the best players of the, you know, of the season in the world.   It's really, really exciting to see who comes up in the end, you know, after such a long year on top.   
For me it will definitely be an amazing achievement.   I'm looking forward to play and win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT