WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/V. Azarenka
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What a beast of a day for you.   You had to change your warmup strip on the practice courts this morning, then you lose a major semifinal, and then you're the last player on court and you lose in doubles as well.   Horrible day for you today. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Thanks for bringing it up and putting me down.   I appreciate that. 
But, you know, I actually take a lot of positive things out of today.   I think it was a great performance for me.   It was a little bit unfortunate, but I can only learn from here and move on. 
I mean, I don't have any regrets when I walked off the court today.   That's important to do. 

Q.   In the second set you got your teeth into the match.   What adjustments did you make and how proud are you of what you were able to do there?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I was just trying to fight because I knew I was going to have a chance sooner or later. 
Before that she was playing really well.   You know, the serve is just that one difference that makes her‑‑ you know, brings her to the higher level. 
So but I just tried to fight, you know, and tried to stay in the moment.   If I have a chance, just try to grab it.   That's what I did.   It was really close, but it wasn't my day today.

Q.   Obviously she served so well, a record number of aces.   What is it like to face that?   What makes her serve so difficult?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, she serves 200.   That already makes it difficult.   You know, I don't see anybody else serving like this on the tour.   You know, she places well.   I don't know how many lines I got today. 
But, you know, there is no point to sit and cry how unfortunate I was because she played great.   I just have to give her all the credit because, you know, she did her job. 
I was just trying to, you know, get the ball back as many times as I could, but it wasn't enough today. 

Q.   There was a point in the second set where you got the break.   If it went to a third, did you feel confident it could turn around?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You could say that.   You never know what could happen.   There's no point to talk about.   It didn't happen, so just no point to talk about it.

Q.   Early part of the season was amazing.   Are you feeling the early season is taking its toll, or are you still taking a tournament at a time?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I take one tournament at a time, one match at a time, one day at a time. 
I think from the beginning of the year I raised the bar so high that for people, when I lose maybe a little bit early, already it's not good enough. 
But I think for me was a great tournament.   It could have been better.   Yeah, for sure it could have been better, but it's not. 
And for me, I already think about my next tournament, my next goals, and that's it. 

Q.   Serena thought her intensity dropped a little in the second set.   Is that a bit unkind or was it your intensity increased?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, she can say whatever she wants and how she feels.   It's because she's the only one who knows how she feels.   I know how I feel.   I cannot speak for her. 
For me, I think I stayed pretty even throughout the whole match.   But, you know, as I said, I cannot speak for somebody else.

Q.   Is she as good a player as she's ever been right now? 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't know.   She seems to play really good against me, so I don't know.   I think we both showed good tennis today.   But, you know, she was better on this day, you know. 

Q.   Early in the match the crowd appeared to be laughing almost at some of the noises you make when you unleash your groundstrokes.   Did you notice it at all?   Did it upset you at all?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No.   Why would it upset me?   You know, you guys make such a big deal out of it, it's a little bit already boring to read all the news.   You know, I think everybody does different kind of noises.   But, you know, what can you do? 

Q.   We've not noticed that happen on Centre Court here before. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I've noticed it everywhere.   Men also grunt really loud. 

Q.   I meant the crowd's reaction. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, maybe you weren't at every match. 

Q.   The semifinals is a good Wimbledon for you.   What do you do next?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I go home.   I have my brother's wedding on Saturday, which I'm really excited about.   From there I'm going to practice and prepare, you know, for the Olympic Games. 

Q.   Who do you like in the final?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I think Serena's going to win, but Agnieszka is a very good player.   It's not easy to get to the final, so anything can happen. 

Q.   Which would give you more pleasure:   going to your brother's wedding or playing in a Wimbledon final?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   That's a silly question.   I think you know the answer. 

Q.   When you come back for the Olympics you can wear what you like.   How do you think that affects the prestige of Wimbledon?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, I think it's going to be just interesting.   Nobody knows how it's going to be.   So it's kind of new and exciting to see how it's going to turn out. 
But that's not something that you can wear whatever you want.   You can wear your national colors, so there is also kind of a strict regime there. 
But I'm actually really excited to see some McDonald's or Coca‑Cola in the back of the court.   It will be funny. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT