WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/T. Paszek
  6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Long day today.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, definitely.   
   
 Q.   What did you do while you waited?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, yeah, the frustrating thing is that you never know when you're going to play.   So you don't know either sleep, eat, wait, go to warm up.   This is kind of frustrating part.   
By the end of the day, I'm glad I finished today.   I had a really good match.   Very difficult to stay focused throughout the whole day.   But it's the same for everybody.   The other girls waited even longer and they were on and off the court.   
But it's tennis.   It's Wimbledon.   It's rain.   It's normal, I guess.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I expected her to play really well.   She's been playing some amazing tennis lately.   No matter what the score is, through her past experience over this month, she can still win.   So I was ready every time and you could see whenever she was down, she was really going for it.   I had to stay composed and try to stay with her and get the opportunity when I had it.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe your history playing against Serena Williams and your thoughts on the match on Thursday.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   History?   I don't know.   I lost to her most of the times.   But, you know, I think we played once here only.   I don't remember.   
   
 Q.   2009.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, we played here once.   
She's definitely a very tough opponent.   She's a great champion.   It's going to be a tough match no matter what.   But, you know, that's what you kind of expect to have in the semifinals.   We had good matches.   We had bad matches.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   What are the qualities in her that make her so tough?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, obviously she's a great fighter.   She never gives up.   You always see that, no matter what the score is, she will go for her shots.   She has a huge serve, which we all know.   Every player that played against her felt that.   It's definitely an asset.   
I don't really like to look back in history because every time you step on the court it's a new story.   You kind of write your own history every time.   
   
 Q.   Are you feeling like you're playing at the same level you did at the beginning of the year?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't think about that because if you try to look for that feeling that you had before, you're not going to find it.   Every day has to be different.   There were days I didn't feel great in the beginning of the year as well but I managed to pull through.   That's what I'm really trying to be focused, take it day to day, work and build from there.   
   
 Q.   You played Serena in Grand Slams and other tournaments.   Do you sense she's different while playing in Grand Slams?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I think so.   I don't know.   Every time she plays against me she plays really well no matter where it is.   I don't really care about that.   
I think everybody take Grand Slam with a little bit more, you know‑‑ I lost the word‑‑ more attention, want to win more.   
But we'll see.   I don't really know.   
   
 Q.   Did you get nervous in the last two service games trying to close it out?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, not really.   She played really well.   She went for her shots which I didn't see before.   I served a good serve and she just went down the line.   Kind of changed the momentum a little bit and she stepped it up.   
But, no, I mean, I was feeling pretty good.   She just went for her shots.  
   
 Q.   Second match in a row under the roof.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Is it?   Yeah.   Well, that was half of the match was outdoor and half indoor.   
   
 Q.   How are the conditions different?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's not the first time.   I played under the roof two matches last year, as well.   Actually, we really lucky that we have the roof and we're able to play under, able to finish.   
But the conditions are nice.   I think it makes it a little bit slower, the court, or maybe just it's an illusion because there's no wind, nothing goes around.   The atmosphere is great on Centre Court.   It's always special no matter if you play with the roof or without the roof.  
   
 Q.   This is the sixth time you're going to play Serena in a Grand Slam.   Do you expect a little more out of yourself?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I expect to do the best job as I can.   That's the most I can ask myself for, to make sure when I leave the court I did everything I can, so...   There is no more that I can do than just try.  
   
 Q.   If you compare 2008 to 2012, you're a better player?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, that's for sure.   As I said, I don't really like to look in the history because there is no point.   You can just take few things, few pointers of knowing the game of opponent.   
But the situation will not be the same.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT