QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Welcome to Doha. 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Thank you.

Q.   Tell us something:   Are you surprised at how well you've played the first month of this year?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Surprised?   No, not really.   I mean, I worked really hard, you know, to get where I am.   So, I mean, I don't think going into Australia I expected to leave Australia with a 12‑0 record, but, you know, that was my mentality every time, going into every match, to try to win and be the best I can.   So I'm not surprised.

Q.   Tell us, are you doing something differently from what you did the last few seasons?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Um, yeah, I mean, a little bit different.   Nothing really major, you know.   But I did work a lot on my fitness probably more than I used to do, and that was the biggest difference. 

Q.   Do you feel your fitness has improved?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I think it's the very noticeable thing that improved a lot in my game.

Q.   Just the other day you said Olympic Games is one of your goals for the season.   How important is it for you?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's one of my main goals.   I mean, this event comes only once in four years, and it's so special, you know.   It's history.
So for me it's one of the main goals this year, and I would love to win a medal.

Q.   Has the prospect of a gold and Grand Slam crossed your mind, winning all the Grand Slams and a gold medal in the Olympic Games?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I think that's everybody's dream to achieve, but, I mean, it's a very difficult task.   But I definitely am going to have the mentality to try to do that.

Q.   How does it feel being back in Doha?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's good.   I like coming back here.   It's my second time here for this tournament.   I have been here before twice for the Championships, so I like this place.   It's a great tournament and good organization.   So it's nice to be back.

Q.   Can you tell us how life has changed since winning in Melbourne?   Do you feel any difference in the locker room, or... 
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I would definitely say I have much more attention than probably a month ago, but my life didn't really change.   I didn't even really go home yet to feel that maybe difference.
But, no, I mean, I'm still the same person, still the same hard‑working tennis player who wants to achieve many more goals.
But it's nice to have, you know, people notice you more.   Of course the support and congrats is always very nice.

Q.   On the tour, do you feel like people want to beat you now much more than when you were lower down in the rankings?
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, probably, you know, there's going to be extra motivation, but for me it's kind of exciting, you know, that every time I have to step on the court I have to ‑‑I have a tougher task to handle. 
So, I mean, I worked really hard to be at this position, so, you know, I have to deal with it now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT