AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/M. Barthel
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did you see the match?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think it was a good match.   You know, she's a very good player.   She has been winning a lot of matches, so definitely really confident.   She was going for her shots.   
I think I started really well.   The first set was very high quality of tennis.   Second I think I lost a little bit of my concentration and wasn't as dominant as I was in the first set.   
But, you know, I stayed composed and I tried to get it back.   So a little bit of not good serving in the second.   But, I mean, you have to go through a little bit of tough moments sometimes, too.   
So I'm glad I could, you know, still stay strong and finish it out.   
   
 Q.   You seemed quite wound up toward the end, almost angry.   Can you tell us what was going on?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah.   I mean, I had to get a little bit not angry like in a bad way, just a little bit get my emotions going to finish the match, because I had few chances, I didn't convert them.   
But, you know, sometimes you just have to push yourself a little bit to get you going again.   
   
 Q.   Is that something you're conscious of doing, playing on emotion?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I'm very emotional player.   I mean, if you ever watched my matches, you know, I try to control my bad emotions.   But that wasn't the case really today.  
   
 Q.   What are your bad emotions?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Bad emotions is more in the back days a little bit.   Beginning of last year I think it was the last one.   Breaking racquets, you know.   Having that almost crying face on the court, as a lot of players do.   
But, you know, I try to stay composed and control it.   
   
 Q.   Did you have your coffee this morning?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I did.   My coach was so nice to bring it for me so I didn't have to get up 10 minutes earlier.  
   
 Q.   We didn't see you the other night after the Dellacqua match.   How did you feel about the crowd when they were mimicking you?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, I have no problem with that at all actually.   I mean, I knew it's gonna happen.   They wanted her to win bad.   It's fine for me.   Doesn't really bother me.  
   
 Q.   Do you hear it?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Of course I hear it.   I mean, I'm not deaf (laughter).   
But it's fine for me.   I mean, the crowd, I respect the crowd, whatever they do.   I try to just be focused on my game, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   So not distracting at all?   Never been distracted by any of that?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No.   I prepare for that and that's it.   For me, it doesn't really bother me.   
   
 Q.   How better equipped are you to maybe go on and win a slam at the start of this year than you were 12 months ago?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think the main difference is I became much more strong physically.   I feel that way.   I'm just, you know, kind of on a roll a little bit right now, trying to do the best I can in every match.   I think I improved my serve, which was not the case really today.   
But, I don't know, I take it day to day.   It's still a long way.   So I just try to take it step by step.  
   
 Q.   The physical improvement is down to the team you have around you at the moment?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Definitely.   I have to give a huge credit to my team.   We all have been working really hard in the off‑season.   You know, we have a really good chemistry between all of us, so it's working out well.  
   
 Q.   Where did you do the work in the off‑season?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I went quite a few places actually.   I've been to Monaco.   I've been to Barbados.   I played an exhibition there.   I've been to Dubai.   I played another exhibition in Thailand.   
   
 Q.   But the real hard work was where, Dubai?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Everywhere.   It was real, real hard work.   The exhibitions was kind of fun.   Ironically when you play, you know, it's physical.   But it was the least physical part of the day.   
   
 Q.   You have your headphones on when you come on court.   What songs are getting you going?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, I just found a new song, Mary J. Blige on YouTube.   I really like that.  
   
 Q.   Is that part of getting you into the match mode?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah.   As I mentioned before, I listen to music and dance a little bit to get physically prepared, activated, get my mind in a fun mode.   
   
 Q.   What can you say about the next match?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Very tricky opponent.   I think she can play really, really well.   You sometimes don't know what to expect.   Sometimes cannot be really up to you.   Sometimes she goes for her shots; sometimes she misses her shots.   
I think she's a very good opponent, and we'll see how it goes.   
   
 Q.   Sum up your progress in with Grand Slams so far?   Are you happy with the progress you've made?   Could you have done better?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, to think if I could have done better I think it's a little bit of a waste of time, because you can't really bring it back.   What you can do is to learn from your experiences, mistakes, good, bad, and take it to the next one.   
So I think I had quite a good experience, quite a lot of experience in Grand Slams.   So trying to take it to the next level.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT