AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/H. Watson
  6‑1, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Your form is obviously good.   Is it a bit difficult with a match like that when you perhaps could have used something a bit more testing?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, the score is easy.   To actually play the match, it's never easy, you know, especially for me coming here only Saturday.   You know, only hit once before the match.   First time I actually hit on center court was today in the morning.   That's why I came earlier, you know, to try to feel the court.   
I think it was a good performance.   There are few things for me that I have to work on tomorrow to be better in my second round.   But, you know, I take what I get.   I cannot complain.   
   
 Q.   You had sort of a strange 2011.   In a way, it's been your best year, but also had a lot of injuries and some withdrawals.   Any of these injuries concerning, long‑term, or things that come up and can be fixed?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   That's what was actually very positive note about it.   There was nothing really serious for a long period of time.   There were a few moments that I had to stop, you know, my body couldn't handle so many matches in a row.   
But because of the commitments to tournaments, you have to go play, you have to go on court.   So sometimes you just have no other choice.   
But it was a good year.   I feel I'm much stronger physically now.   There is always a battle a little bit of doing a perfect schedule.   It's tough.   
But I'm ready for 2012, you know, and try to actually learn from what I did last year and try to make it better this year.   
   
 Q.   The confidence from the year, the mental side of things, the way you played last year has obviously helped give you a lot of confidence, I imagine.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, it is.   But it's always kind of new beginning, new thing that you have to, you know, get the feeling of the competition, really get into the competition.   
So I'm trying to improve, you know, with the mental.   I think there is no limit.   I'm glad the way I am on the court now.   I'm really enjoying myself.   
   
 Q.   What did you think of your opponent today?   She had one very good game, and then you rather dominated her.   Did you think she looked like a decent prospect?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I think she's a very good player.   She probably maybe was a little bit overwhelming, you know, playing on center court.   First match for her as well, and she's still young.   
But I think I also started a little bit rusty.   I came back strong and kept my composure all the way through the end of the match.   I really put a lot of pressure on her.   
So I don't think she really managed that well today, but I think she has a great skills.   You know, she's very good mover.   She has a good serve.   
Today was a little bit difficult for me, as well.   It was difficult to serve with a little breeze of wind.   But I think she has a good potential.   
   
 Q.   Is 2012 a year where you think you should say to yourself, Now it's time to take the next step and consistently challenge for Grand Slam finals?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, this is always the goals, you know.   For me, I'm such a competitor that I always put challenges on myself on the court, off the court, and I try to reach them.   
I always go step by step.   Cannot jump ahead.   I think now is a good opportunity.   I feel good playing.  
But I'm going to take it step by step all the way through.   
   
 Q.   Is the No.1 ranking one of your goals as well?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, before you win matches, you're not going to have any ranking.   The most important thing is to go deep in the tournaments, and then you have your ranking.  
   
 Q.   With your results last week and then the way you played this morning, do you think this is your best chance to finally crack a Grand Slam?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I'm not really approaching it that way.   I'm approaching it day by day, because every day is different.   Sometimes you feel great; sometimes you feel sleepy; sometimes you feel energetic like crazy.   
It's really more important on how well you take each moment and every details.   
   
 Q.   You're striking the ball consistently well the last couple weeks.   That must give you a lot of confidence.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I guess.   I won a tournament and won today.   So, yeah, the ball striking is pretty well.   But that's not the whole magic to win matches.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel today?   Sleepy?   Awake?   Energetic?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Actually, I didn't get my coffee in the morning today, so I was really pissed off (laughter).   So tomorrow I'm definitely getting it.   It was so early and I wanted to come play a little bit longer on center court.   Everything was closed.   I said, Oh, my God, I need my coffee.   
So I kept trying to open my eyes without it and it was not working (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT