TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 30, 2011
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/V. Azarenka
  7-5, 4-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Walk us through the match, your assessment. What was the difference?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think it was a very good quality match. You know, Petra really started well, caught me a little bit off-guard, so aggressive. And I'm glad, you know, I could fight my way back and try to stay in the match. There were few chances that I slipped out, but overall, you know, I really gave it all today comparing my fighting spirit.
 The way I played probably could have been better, but, you know, that's already in the past. But I'm glad the way I fought today, and, you know, there is only can get better from here.

 Q. You played her closer than your last couple of times. Did you try to do something differently this time around?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think I just played better, you know. I think I develop more and more as a player. I have more weapons now, so next time we gonna play, you know, I want to beat her. It's gonna be extra motivation.

 Q. (Through translation.) After 5-Love, you brought the set back to 5-5. What were you thinking at 5-Love, and what did you think at 5-All?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, at 5-Love, you know, it's hard to, you know, keep pushing yourself to do better, but, you know, that's all you have to do. You try to believe and get your chance one point by one and just keep fighting.
 So that's what I was trying to do. And at 5-All, I still had the same spirit and belief to keep going. She just really played well, and I didn't take advantage of that situation coming back.

 Q. What happened? Why did you start the game so bad? What was the problem?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: That's a silly question. It wasn't my bad start. She just played well.

 Q. No, you know, you don't feel like, you know -- in the first five games you don't feel confident, but then you fought back? I mean, mentally problem or something different? What was it? You know, you don't fit well in the first five games. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I guess not. I guess you gave an answer to your question yourself. (Smiling.)

 Q. I asked you yesterday about the left-handed serve and whether it's probably the most difficult serve in women's tennis at the moment. It worked again pretty well today. Can you talk a little bit more about the difficulties of facing it and what you have to do against it?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah. She really -- she has a really big serve, you know. And she really takes advantage of it. In the important moments it really is saving her. 
 So today was better for me. I could break her more often, so I just have to take in consideration the way I was returning today, my position, and more that I was aggressive. I wasn't afraid to, you know, take my chances on her serve.
 So, you know, next time I just have to remember all that and try to execute my shots better.

 Q. For a while in women's tennis we have been talking about when the next generation is going to come through, and there has been Kim and Serena still kind of hanging around. Well, now tomorrow you, Caroline, and Petra will be the top three. Do you see the three of you embedding yourself for the next three, four, five years?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Three, five years, it's such a long time. My God, I don't know. 
 But I think Petra, me, Caroline, we have been pretty consistent and showed some great results this year, so, you know, I really stepped it up, especially Petra who won a Grand Slam, really made it to the elite, I would say.
 But I don't know. I think the way the game is today, it's unpredictable, but definitely with the consistency with the game we have, we have a chance to dominate the game.

 Q. The game is unpredictable, but I want to ask you to make a prediction: Would you expect Petra to become No. 1 soon? I know you're both going to be competing for it next year. How do you see it going?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think you guys do much better predictions than we are. You like to talk about it, weight everybody's chances and put some players down. So it's fair enough. You can do it.

 Q. But if she was to reach No. 1, do you think she'd be worthy of it?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Of course. I mean, everybody who reach No. 1 is worthy of it. You cannot reach No. 1 without playing bad or, you know, just because you're lucky. It's a lot of hard work.

 Q. Can we talk about noise made on court?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, let's talk about it. 

 Q. No, I don't want to talk about the noise you make on court, but a few years ago a lot of men's players got upset about Lleyton Hewitt and the noises he made followed by the fist. Now, every time she wins a big point or indeed you made an error, there was a crow-like screech and a fist, which I thought was rather undemeaning. Do you have any thoughts on it at all?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: No, I don't care about that. You know, whatever helps players to be better, I mean, that's her own way. I have to respect that. 
 I just think that every player, as every person who is spectator or whatever, has to respect the players for what they do on the court. I don't think she does it to piss somebody off. It's just her own way to pump herself up. 
 You know, somebody has to jump around, somebody, I don't know, have to say bad words or whatever. It's their own way. For me, I just try to focus on myself and that's it.

 Q. Do you hear it?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Oh, yeah. It's pretty loud, but it's okay. 

 Q. What's next for holiday? What's your plan?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Oh, I'm going home tomorrow. And I'm gonna enjoy my time. 

 Q. Any cooking lessons?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I'm pretty good chef already. I may give some lessons to my agents who are coming.

 Q. Now that the season is over, assess your season and also just assess this tournament for the first time. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Um, the season was definitely the best one so far I had. There are always things could have been better, you know, during the year, but, you know, you can cannot go the full year without some bad matches or bad moments.
 So I'm really glad I was really consistent since March, and I think I improved a lot, not only my tennis but my physical aspect, my mental aspect a lot, and, you know, I'm really looking forward to just do that extra step to try to be better in the important matches and take bigger titles.

 Q. And the tournament?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Oh, the tournament? I think it was definitely the best one I had so far. I not only got out of the group but made it to the final, was very close match. I'm happy. 
 Of course I'm disappointed with a loss today, but, you know, I have to take the best out of it and just move on.

 Q. First game of the third set you had your chances there. Is that your one regret, that maybe you just couldn't get ahead in the third?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think I just didn't really step it up. You know, she played really well those three points, but, you know, I could have done better, definitely. 
 Regrets? I don't have regrets. I gave it all. 

 Q. You say you're going home tomorrow. Is that to Monte-Carlo or is that to Belarus or where?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Belarus, Minsk, direct flight.

 Q. Can you just tell us when -- I mean, is it a couple weeks' holiday and then back to work? What's your timing going to be?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, definitely three weeks no tennis, and I'm going to have fun, going to visit a Rihanna concert, which I'm really, really excited about. And I don't know. Just really enjoy my time off.

 Q. Where is the concert?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Zurich. With some Swiss chocolate. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT