APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/M. Bartoli
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Apart from the tennis, very bizarre day.   Windy, and then the lights go out.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It makes it fun, you know.   (Smiling.)   If it was perfect it would be too boring.   But there, you know, it's no lights, wind, I mean, it's exciting.  
So it was fun.  
   
 Q.   Was it a distraction at all for your tennis?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, but I think it was for both of us.   So, you know, I didn't try to look at it as a distraction.   I was just trying to take it as the conditions that I have to deal with.   So that's it.   
You know, I was really trying to focus and find my game, adjust my game to the conditions, because it's not up to me to change 'em.   
   
 Q.   You tested Marion a fair bit today.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, she played some incredible tennis, I think.   I saw her playing in Hopman Cup before and she was really solid.   
We always have tough matches, so I was expecting to have a tough battle.   She really made me dig deep today and lift up my game, which I'm glad I could at the important moments.  
It was a great test and a good match.   I'm really glad I could have that kind of fight.   
   
 Q.   Is that encouraging to you this early in the season that you could play at such a high level?   You guys were playing some really good tennis out there.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Thank you for that.   I think it's important.   As I said, it's really good to see how well you're prepared to really test out.   
I couldn't be happier have to such a tough match today.  
   
 Q.   There is so much talk about Caroline and Petra going for No. 1, No. 2, that whole thing.   You're No. 3, not far away.   You're probably not getting the same kind of attention.   Does that help you not having that kind of spotlight on?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   You know, it's just numbers.   I mean, before you make‑‑ you gonna go far in the tournament and get those points to become No. 1, No. 2, whatever, you have to win matches.   
For me, I'm really focusing on winning matches and improving my game.   With that, the results come, right?   So we'll see.   (Smiling.)   I mean, if the girls get that attention, I'm happy for them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT