CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2011
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) I've got two questions: Last week you were playing in Tokyo and you had a good performance. What is your target in this year's China Open? Second question: When China Open organizing committee was trying to recruit new names for the new stadium, you gave your choice for the new stadium as the Diamond, which is exactly the name we are using. Have you been to the center court, and how do you like the new court?   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Okay, first question, yes, it was a good performance in Tokyo last week. I'm looking forward to playing in China Open. Last year I got injured here, so I didn't really get a chance to perform my best. But it's a big event, and I'm looking forward to my first match.  
 About the stadium, I haven't been playing there yet because I just arrived last night. I actually voted for the name to be Diamond Arena, so I'm glad they named it that. I'm looking forward to go out there. I'm sure it's going to be amazing. I just saw a little bit of the pictures from the outside.   
  
  Q. You went to the New York Fashion Week during the US Open, and separately saw as a model. Tell us something about this story.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, it was very surprising to walk on the runway for me, because I didn't know that -- I didn't realize that I'm actually going to walk runway. I thought I'm just going to attend the show. (Smiling.)  
But it was a fun experience, you know, definitely different from what I do daily, you know, playing tennis. It was fun, but definitely I'm going to choose tennis every time over the modeling. It was great experience, and I would love to do that again for sure.   
  
  Q. With Li Na's success in the international tennis court, there are more and more young Chinese players or young people interested in tennis. Do you have any suggestions for them, because you were really successful as a junior player?  
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, thank you. I think it's very good for the sport, and especially for China, to have somebody likely Li Na making such a big success so more people can get more involved in tennis and be more introduced to tennis. That's what we're all are hoping for.   
 For the kids, I think the biggest suggestion I can give is to always believe in yourself and have fun on the court. Because when you enjoy doing something, you will always succeed better than when you're out there and just somebody really push you. I think it's very important to enjoy it.   
  
  Q. In the United States in the Grand Slam you lost to the opponent Li Na, and Kvitova and Serena Williams all have step into the Grand Slam finals. I feel a little regret for you. But you are still in the top 5 players, so I think you are a very promising player in the next few years. What's your next plan? To be the No. 1 or to win the Grand Slam? Which one will be the first to go? Thank you.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Thank you for your kind words. The goal, you know, there are two ultimate goals for me: to be No. 1 and to be winning the Grand Slam. Whatever comes first, I'll be happy with it.   
 But hopefully I can do that in one time. Becoming No. 1 while winning a Grand Slam, that would be the dream coming true.   
  
  Q. You have already secured your trip to Istanbul in the end of the season. Congratulations.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Also there will be Petra Kvitova and Caroline Wozniacki. People talk a lot about you three because you're all very young and excellent players.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Thank you.  
  
  Q. I want to know, if your opinion, what's your advantages compared to them in terms of power, tactics mental toughness, and things like that? Thank you.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Um, I think we are, the three of us are completely different players. You know, we have our own game style, which I would say me and Petra have a little bit more in common. We are a little bit more of an aggressive kind of players. But it's tough for me to judge what's better for me, what's worse from them. I think it's different people's opinions.   
 But, yes, we are all young and really want to succeed. Petra is one who just recently won a Grand Slam, so she has an advantage in that over me and Caroline, and Caroline is No. 1. So it's kind of a controversy and good competition, I would say. So I think it really lifts us up to be better every time.   
 You know, I'm glad that I qualified. Well, definitely going to be tough with these players in the draw. But, I mean, that's what we're all working really hard for the whole year, to establish your place in that last competition.  
  
  Q. I think you're as good as when you're in the doubles court, playing doubles, you're just as good as playing single. Do you have a preference? Do you prefer playing doubles, or is singles is like more of your style?  
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, singles is definitely always a priority. Doubles is I would say more fun. When you play doubles you have less pressure, you're not thinking about...  
 So how you say? I forget the word. Anyway, you're not so focused on doing such a good result, even though you always play to win. You're just more relaxed, I would say.   
 In doubles also it's important I think to have a good partner, somebody who you enjoy play to with and who no matter what is always supporting you. I have that kind of partner, so for me it's a double win.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT