WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 9, 2010
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/V. Azarenka
  2-6, 7-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You served fairly well. You were up a set and a break and had more winners than unforced errors. You broke five out of six times. You actually won more points than she did. I'm trying to figure out how you lost. I'm not trying to be critical, but what happened?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I was playing pretty well in the first set, serving well. Then, I don't know, I just lost my rhythm of the serve maybe because of the darkness change or something. I just completely lost my timing and I couldn't put it in. And when you double fault in a game, you don't have to be really good to make a break. 
 So for me, I just honestly gave away all of my chances I had. And I don't know, just have to go back and try to practice more. I'm sure I can come up with better tennis, because today was a little bit of disaster.

 Q. Did the fact that she became a little more aggressive on your second serve bother you? She stepped into the court a little bit more. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: No, didn't bother me. If you look at my serve speed, it's like 50 miles per hour. You have to step in. 
 But, um, as I said, you know, it's just really I haven't figured out why I lost my timing yet. 

 Q. Did the lights bother you perhaps?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't know. I just don't like to look for excuses, you know, the lights, the fans, I don't know everything. To me, I'm just very disappointed with the way I played. 
 There's nothing you can do. Have to go back on the court, work hard. I have my game, I just need to make sure I have it throughout the whole match.

 Q. You pulled out of the last tournament in San Diego because of your right shoulder. Did that give you any trouble today?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: No, no trouble. Like I said, it was timing. I just completely lost it. It was a disaster how I served. 
 But, I mean, she took her chances. She is a winner today.

 Q. From a positive standpoint, what do you take away from this match that you're happy with? Obviously you're disappointed you lost, but not everything was bad. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: No, I mean, I played pretty good the first set. I was aggressive. But when you don't have a serve, it's tough. It's tough to start, you know, coming in the points, which I like to do. 
 It was one pretty big shot taken away from me today. But it's all my fault. I just have to go back on the court, as I said, and work on my mistakes.

 Q. Do you think she was taking some pace off her forehand and backhand? Did it seem like less pace than usual?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Actually I think she was just pushing and she was just trying to make it in, and sometimes she was coming up with really big forehands.
 But, you know, I just didn't take my chances. I think I was playing really aggressive the first set, and the second set I back up and started playing her game. I didn't come in as I did in the first set. 
 But, you know, I have to work on my mistakes.

 Q. Some of the high balls you're talking about, does it seem like they're different from her usual game?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Um, I don't know what's her usual game, you know, right now. It's changed, I think, a lot. Honestly, you have no idea sometimes where she's gonna hit the ball. In the fence or right like this from the line. 
 It's tough to read, but I think she played well today. 

 Q. Last year you peaked at No. 6. Now you're ranked 12. You're not that far out of the top 10. What do you have to do specifically to have get back into the top 10?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Be more consistent. I played -- and especially for me it's important to be injury-free, which I am since Wimbledon, which is great. 
 I have to improve my game. For me, it's the most important thing. I improve my game, I'm definitely gonna improve my ranking. I have another tournament before the US Open, and I'm definitely gonna work hard and bring my A Game to the Open.

 Q. What are your goals and expectations for Montreal, or the US Open for that matter?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Absolutely no expectations. Goals, yeah, you try to win every tournament you go, you know. You don't just go to the tournament and, Oh, I want to reach quarters here. Everybody goes to win the tournament.
 So the goal's, of course, always to win. But for me, I don't have any expectations. I play match by match, because if you put too much pressure on yourself there's just no point.

 Q. When you first saw you were playing Ana when the draw came out, what were your thoughts? Obviously she's had a lot struggles recently. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, she did. But this is different. She's becoming like underdog in this match. With the fans, night session, sometimes it changes the mindset and the way you play.
 I don't know, playing against qualifier on Court 5, it could be different. But I don't know. I think she played with the match. I just wish her good luck for the rest of the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT