WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 27, 2010
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/V. Azarenka
  7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It must be very tough to lose a game like this, such a close game in difficult conditions.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yes, definitely it was a close match. I had a lot of chances. Very unlucky at some moments. There was like, I don't know, one million of nets from her side.   
 But, you know, it's part of the game. You just have to deal with it. I think I played a good match. I'm still in the group. I still have chances to play further.   
 But, you know, I'm going to keep fighting for the next match and get ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Two hours and 17 in this heat. Will it affect you for your next match tomorrow against Clijsters?   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I actually didn't know that I'm playing Clijsters or anybody. I hope not. I have time to recover. It's more than 12 hours, so I'm going to do the best I can to recover and prepare for tomorrow.  
 I'm feeling good.  
  
  Q. You beat Clijsters already in Eastbourne, I guess. At the other hand, in Miami you had almost no chances against her. What was the difference between these two chances?   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Did you watch the match in Miami?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I was up in this set, so you cannot say that I had no chances.  
  
  Q. In the second set.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah. Well, anyway, she's a very good player. She hasn't played since US Open, but she did really, really well in US Open. She's always a tough opponent beat, but I'm actually really excited to play against her, especially after the last match when I won.   
  
  Q. You're just arriving here from a very good week. Tell us about the state of mind and how tired or not tired you are physically and mentally at this stage.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, definitely different conditions, you know, and it's very tough it. It's very humid. Sometimes your racquet just slips out of your hands.   
 I mean, it's the same for everybody. I had probably less time to prepare than anybody else, but I'm still happy to be here, that I qualified. I'm going to fight until the end. I still have chances, as I said.  
 I'm really looking forward for my next match. I just have to regroup from today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT