INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2019
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








V. AZARENKA/G. Muguruza
6-4, 3-1 (ret.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did it feel to be one of the rare players who didn't have to play twice today?  Did you feel that was an advantage?  How do you feel getting into the quarterfinals?
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I mean, I'm very happy that I was able to finish my match that night because we had a lot of breaks.  It wasn't easy.  I was very happy that I was able to finish that because it would have taken next all day not being able to play.
In terms of advantage, I don't know, I still got to play doubles today.  It's hard to tell.  I think it depends on an individual.  But definitely I didn't want to play two singles today, which is for me better for sure.
Q. Talk about the match.  It ended in a retirement, but in terms of what you did, how you played today, how pleased were you just not this match but the win the other night against Svitolina?
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I feel like I keep improving from week-to-week.  I'm able to just like checkpoint some of those goals that I set for myself.  Obviously the match with Elina was very dramatic.  It was really good quality.  I was really happy that I kind of learned from the past week in Madrid how to kind of turn the things around and take more into my own hands.
Today obviously I was fortunate to win with the retirement.  I hope Garbine recovers as soon as possible.  I felt with all the conditions today on the Court 3, was definitely not easy.  I'm very happy that I stayed focused, kind of zoned in in the middle of that first set.  I didn't really look back from there.  I'm happy with that today.
In terms of game, it wasn't easy to show your best tennis.
Q. Describe the atmosphere more.  Goffin was talking about how tough it was to play with a match behind you, other side of the court, next to you, everything being loud.
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I mean, yeah, there's a lot of things.  Obviously the only thing that wasn't happening was like a storm or like raining.  Everything else was going on.  The crowd, the weird shade that takes half of the court.  The court was very slippery.  I thought it was dangerously slippery.
I was wondering, ask the umpire if we could water the court.  They said no.  I never understand.  If both players agree, why can't we water the court?  Just a little bit stupid, in my opinion.
Other than that, yes, it was unusual.  Obviously the day today was unusual.  I think for players was a little bit tough.  But I think it's an amazing day for the fans.  I know they enjoyed to see so many players on the outside courts, so many matches.  Somebody won.
Q. Can you reveal some of the checkpoints on your list.
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Nope.
Q. Any hint?
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Nope.  It's for me (smiling).
Q. You're playing doubles with Barty.  You have done very good in Miami and here.  Seems like you enjoyed playing doubles.  Talk about playing with Barty, how it helps your motivation.
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, the doubles especially at the beginning of the year was important for me to be able to get as much match practice as I can.  Playing with Ash is really fun.  She's a great girl.  I really enjoy our partnership.  I feel like we can bounce ideas off each other and kind of improve.
She plays such a different style of game, I can learn a little bit from her.  Maybe she can do the same.  It's been really helpful.  I don't know how much I'm going to play every week in the future.  I definitely will keep in mind to play doubles a little more.
I feel like I need to rethink my schedule a little bit because I've been picking up a lot more in singles.  That's going to be my priority.  As of now, the doubles is great.  I enjoy playing it.  We're definitely going to play the French Open.
Q. Seems like every couple weeks you're playing Pliskova in a tournament.
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yes.
Q. Talk through the matchup that you know pretty well.  How different do you think the conditions are here compared to Stuttgart?
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Obviously the conditions are going to be more different.  The court is a little slower.  It also depends on the day.  When it's hot, not a lot of clay, the court becomes fast and slippery.  In a way, it could be similar.  Just outdoors, so a little more circumstances come into the match.
I don't think there's going to be many surprises.  It's just you play a top five player, it's going to be tough no matter what.  Our matches against each other are going to be tough.  It's going to be important who takes the opportunities better, who creates more, who is taking chances, going for it.
It's going to be tough no matter what.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT