SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2009
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/J. Jankovic
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Victoria. 

 Q. First time in the WTA Masters and first win. What can you tell us more about the game? It seems it was an easy game against Jankovic. She said that she gave you the game and she was not in the mood to win the game. What can you tell us about what happened on the court? 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I'm glad she gave me the match, and she was not in the mood. It worked out pretty well for me. 
 I'm just happy with the way I started. I haven't played in a while a tournament. I felt pretty good out there. I was following my game plan, as I should have. I'm happy about my result. 

 Q. You served particularly well until that one game where you were broken, then carried on in the same vein afterwards. You must have been pretty pleased with that part of your game tonight. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, definitely. The serve was a big concern for me today. I had to be aggressive and consistent, not to let her step into the court, which she likes to do. 
 I was really happy with the percentage. Second set, as you said, when I was broken, I got a little bit too many second serves, but still was pretty good overall. 

 Q. Questions about tomorrow's match. What do you expect from Wozniacki? How is it to play against your friend?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, we played already like four times or five times, I don't remember. It's nice. I mean, this tournament is very different from anywhere else. And last time we played against each other was on clay. So it's gonna be a different match. 
 I expect a good match from her. She's a great fighter, a good girl, and I'm sure we're going to have fun. 

 Q. Obviously, you were playing very well today and you were coping with the weather very well. How far can you go in the tournament and how much do you think you can cope with the weather? It's not an easy tournament. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Definitely. I mean, it's pretty humid. You sweat a lot. But it's for everybody, you know. You have to deal with it and keep going. 
 As far as I can go, I don't want to say anything. I'm just gonna play match by match and see how I go. I never look too far into the draw. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT