THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 1, 2019
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. AZARENKA/A. Cornet   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you just talk us through how things went for you.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, I felt like it was pretty good quality of the match.  You know, first rounds can be tricky, especially on grass.  You know, waiting kind of the whole day for the match also takes a little bit of adjustment and is nerve-wracking, you know.  You want to get on the court and get to play and stuff.   
But I felt like I started really strong, and I had a little hiccup in the first set, but I recovered really well and kind of stepped on, you know, the gas and didn't really let go after.   
 Q.  Do you always prefer to play day one at Wimbledon?  Is it an advantage, do you feel?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't feel like there is really advantage or anything like that.  It's just, you know, I feel like first matches are something that, you know, you want to start the tournament and everybody is, like, a little nervous to see how you can do.  I feel like it's just a normal process, to be honest.   
 Q.  As a mother, did you have your family with you today where they watched on at all?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, my son doesn't watch my matches yet.  He's too young.  But on TV, for sure.  But he's very, very aware of what I do.   
Bringing him on the court for me would be a little bit nerve-wracking.  I would be making sure, you know, he's doing okay and he'll be, like, screaming "Mama" and just want to go on the court.   
 Q.  I was looking at a story today.  There is, like, an interview of you where you talked about you actually leapt to the defense of athletes that have been through pregnancy and continue to compete at very high levels.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  There was a mention of one brand which was unnamed.  I just wanted to check really with you that you wouldn't like to name that?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I wouldn't like to do this -- I would like to keep it confidential at the moment.  But just to be clarified, it wasn't anything to do with my sport, sport branding.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT