WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2009
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/V. Azarenka
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You must have been feeling pretty good going into the match because of your record, but she played pretty well today, didn't she?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, I mean, she was striking the ball so hard and so good. I mean, she didn't give me many opportunities, you know. She really showed the unbeatable Serena today, I guess. 

 Q. Did you see Venus play at all while you were in the locker room?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: No. 

 Q. How, if at all, is Serena's game different on the grass than on the hard courts?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, the serve I think is more efficient, you know. It's harder to return. The groundstrokes are also faster on the grass. 
 But, I mean, the game she played today, if she would play on hard courts or on any other surface, it would be pretty good, you know. It was just her day, you know, and she played amazing tennis. 

 Q. You led 3-2 in the second set, and then what happened?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: You know, that was one time I had the opportunity, you know, to maybe go further to, you know, hold my serve. But I did few mistakes, and she really kept pressuring me on my serve. I just couldn't really handle it well today. 
 And then she just played really, really good tennis again. 

 Q. Do you think anyone can stop either of the Williams sisters being in the final again? They've been in seven of the last eight finals here. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't know. I mean, I haven't watched Venus play. But results, you can see that she's been winning pretty comfortable. 
 You never know, you know. It's day to day. You never know what could happen, but I'm pretty sure they're playing very good tennis and they deserve to play in the final and winning the tournament. 

 Q. Do you think somehow there's different about Serena and Venus than the other players on the tour?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, everybody's different, you know. You cannot compare anyone. You cannot even compare both of them. 
 But I think they have a lot of more experience, because in the top 10 there are more young girls than has been before. They just have a lot of experience. They know how to handle themselves in all of the situations.

 Q. Is it a special goal - and you've done it - to get a victory over one of the Williams girls?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, definitely.

 Q. Is there a lot of locker room talk about them and the fact that somebody is going to have to stop them or enter the conversation with them?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't really talk about tennis in the locker room, so I don't know. 

 Q. Is it that they're so good and the other women are not so good, that you have to get up to their standard?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I don't think it's fair to say, you know, that they are so good and the other ones are not so good, because everybody who plays quarterfinals are already good. 
 They just been showing a little bit more aggressive game. But you cannot really say that they are so good and the other ones not so good. I don't think that's fair. 

 Q. Better is what I meant. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah. These days, yeah. For example, in French Open maybe you couldn't say that. 

 Q. You've had a good year. Good run here; good run in Miami. Do you see yourself in the future as a player who could win multiple Grand Slams? Is that something that you envision?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, you know, it's a tricky question. Of course I want to achieve all that, you know, and win as many tournaments or as many Grand Slam as possible. 
 But I cannot really say if I can see myself there. I think I have pretty good chances still to improve, you know, my game, and maybe win the tournaments, yeah. 

 Q. There's two parts to tennis: the mental and the physical part, the strokes and fitness and stuff. In that balance between the two, which is most powerful in someone like Serena, in your mind? Is it her fighting spirit in her mind or the actual force of her shots and her athleticism?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think it's everything, because she's a real like complete player, I would say. She has every shot. She's very strong mentally. She fights until the last moment. I think she just has the whole package, what makes her a great champion.

 Q. Are you saying there's no real weakness that you can exploit in her game?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, nobody's perfect. I mean, she still has her up and downs. But I'm saying overall. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT