SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 31, 2009
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/S. Stosur
  6-1, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How does it feel to reach two premier semifinals in a row?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: It feels great. I've been playing very well the last pretty much four weeks. I'm just very happy with the way I played, and I just want to keep going.

 Q. Did anything, any one thing in particular, work really well for you tonight? Obviously by the scoreline a lot of things worked well. But can you pinpoint one part of your game that really was on tonight? 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think was very important my return today, because Sam has a great serve and it's really tough to return. 
 I was just returning very well and starting to put pressure on her right from the return, so I think that was the key for me today. 

 Q. Could you talk about the next match a little bit? 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, next match I play Svetlana. I never beat her before. She's a great player. Obviously she been playing very good this tournament, too. She had a great win today. 
 I just want to keep going and play the same way I played today. Hopefully maybe better if it's possible. And that's it. I just want to try my best.

 Q. Svetlana said earlier she was bothered somewhat by the conditions. You played in the heat here already. Obviously tonight it was a night match. Has that bothered you at all, any of the humidity?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Not really. I mean, it's tough, but as I look at it, it's tough for both players. So the toughest one just have to hang in there and win. I been preparing myself for all that. I'm ready for any heat. 
 Obviously in Australia it was hotter than here, so I'm ready for that. 

 Q. You might have been asked this question a lot, but why do you think you started playing this good since this year, beginning of this year? 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I just -- I mean, I just prepared better maybe for this year. I was working very hard physically, and tennis-wise I improved some of my weaknesses from last year. 
 I just started believing in myself more that I can do it and fight every point no matter what. So that's, I think, the most important thing for me.
 I started to enjoy more and more believing in myself. 

 Q. In the off-season, did you do like different training compared to... 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, I had completely different fitness trainer. I have a new fitness trainer right now, which I am really happy with. That was the big difference for me.

 Q. So fitness is the key?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I wouldn't say it's the key, but it's definitely very important part of the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT