ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
August 2, 2008
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D. SAFINA/V. Azarenka
6-0, 2-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. How come you lost the first set 6-Love?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I mean, it's tough. I came to the match. I mean, I thought I was ready, but I didn't really play my game. I was just everything back. 
 But she was playing unbelievable every point. I couldn't find my rhythm, couldn't find my game. I mean, that's how you lose, I guess. 

 Q. What did you tell yourself between the first and second set? How were you able to come back?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: I mean, I had to change something because like this I couldn't even win one game. So I had to step in and play more aggressive, and that's how I found my rhythm, put much more pressure on her, and it was a different game after.

 Q. End of the second, beginning of the third, were you really fatigued? 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, the first three games, they were really close. I mean, it was not like somebody was commanding more and somebody was backing off. It was just very tight playing every point good. 
 And then I just started playing a little bit more defensive, let her play her game. That's how, I mean, she got back again into the rhythm and started playing more, putting more pressure on me. 
 But, I mean, from 5-1, I was able to come back a little bit. But the last game, she was serving unbelievable. I didn't have a chance to get back more. 

 Q. How would you characterize your style of play?
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I think I'm playing aggressive. I just have so many things to improve now. I just need to come in more. I think my character that I'm playing is the baseliner, aggressive baseliner. 

 Q. You had another match against her not too long ago. 
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, but just last week. But that was very different match. I got injured right before our match. I mean, it was a little bit still injured here. But that match was just whole different story. I wasn't in my best shape. But she was playing really great there. 
 As you can see, she's playing -- since clay court season, Berlin, she's playing amazing. I think she's just playing like a No. 1 player in the world. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT