MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 26, 2018
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. AZARENKA/A. Radwanska   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did it feel out there?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I played my game, and I was doing what was working.  I was aggressive, I was using my opportunities to step up, and I put pressure.   
So I'm pretty happy that I was able to play consistent throughout the whole match.   
 Q.  Pliskova next.  What are the challenges for that match, in your opinion?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: A lot.  She's an amazing player, top-10 player.  Been pretty consistent with high results.  In the end, she's a great ball striker, heavy ball, and very big serve.   
For me, it's a challenge to see how I can approach that and how I can progress from that match.  It's perfect.  I wouldn't ask for anything else.   
 Q.  I think you are in your longest winning streak since coming back to the tennis court.  So do you feel you are in the good form right now?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Oh, you mean that I won four matches (smiling)?   
Yeah, I don't know.  I don't think four matches is the longest streak that I can actually pay attention to, but it's definitely something I'm happy that I'm able to play consistent throughout four matches at such big event, so that's progress.   
But right now I'm focusing one match at a time.  I don't think I'm close to where I want to be yet, but I'm definitely stepping big steps towards that direction.   
 Q.  Have you looked ahead in the draw at your next possible opponent?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: No.  I actually never look at the draw, so I just -- I have always been this way, since a kid.  I think it's important to take one match at a time, and I always had that mentality.   
So for me there is no reason to really look ahead.  You know, playing events, even if you are high-ranked or lower-ranked player, you still have to win matches and you have to be focused, because competition is pretty brutal from the first rounds now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT