MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 4, 2016
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I guess if you're here that means you won't play today.  Can you explain what's going on?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, unfortunately in my first match I think I tweaked my back a little bit.  It was really cold, and, I don't know, I think it's much easier to get a little bit hurt when it's that cold.   
And the second match obviously I was in a lot of discomfort.  Having a day off I thought it was going to get better.  Today before my tennis warmup it did feel better, but once I started hitting it came back.   
I don't feel that I'm able to compete today.  Just trying to make smart decision for a big picture.   
 Q.  So still planning only playing Rome next week?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: See how it goes.  Really going to take it day by day and make sure my body is ready.   
 Q.  Is it just the back?  Lower back?  Upper back?  Where exactly are you feeling it?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, it's lower back.  I don't know.  As I said, I don't really have a particular answer why it happened.  There could have been couple of things.  I been really sick the week before that.   
So I don't know.  I'm just trying to make the test, make sure there is nothing serious, and try to treat it as best as possible.  My plan is to be ready for Rome, so hopefully I'll be able to do that.   
 Q.  Is your plan to stay here to get the tests done or go back to the States?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Oh, no.  States is way too far for that.  I'm hoping to do it today so I know right way and we can take action on the recovery.   
 Q.  Was it something you had before in the past or something completely new that just flared up out of nowhere?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: As I said, I don't know.  My theory is that it was wrong little bit of movement, and when it's really cold weather and you sweat a little bit it's very easy to get those tweaks.   
Especially the match before that I don't think helped a lot.  But it is what it is.   
 Q.  How frustrating is it for you - you said you had good preparation before Fed Cup, after Fed Cup, for the clay and wanted to tackle it pretty much full on - to get a little ailment in the first match?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I'm not going to sit here and beat myself that I got hurt.  It's just sports.  I just need to stay positive and make sure that I do everything right to be able to move forward.   
My preparation is delayed a little bit with the matches, but going on the court playing what I did in the last match also doesn't help my improvement.   
As I said beginning of the year and throughout this year, for me it's all about improvement.  I'm going to make those choices for that.   
 Q.  You said you were in some discomfort in the second match.  Has it gotten worse since then or at the same level?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: It's pretty much at the same level.  As I said, felt a little bit easier yesterday and before my hitting today.  I was serving in my match very slowly, and today in the warmup it was not really possible.   
So I tried to be ready, but I think just one day of rest is not enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT