MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 30, 2016
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. AZARENKA/J. Konta   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  (No microphone - question regarding going for more on the first serve.)  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I think the serve percentage, I always had a pretty high first serve percentage.  I think the difference is the way I'm using my serve.  I'm going for a lot more; I take a lot more risk.   
It's been more rewarding in terms of winning percentage as opposed to making percentage of serves in.   
If you compare to Australia it's a big difference from Indian Wells and here.  Really trying to work on it and make adjustments to use it more as a weapon.   
I think that's been missing for a long, long time to really take my game to next level.  I'm glad I have team around me to push me, to learn to trust myself, and really take that and improve it.   
 Q.  After so many injuries and everything you've been through, have you ever doubt yourself that you could come back playing your best again after so many hard things you have to pass through?  Did you have a doubt yourself?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I never doubt my abilities.  What came to my mind is definitely after being for so long injured, the doubt was to get healthy.  So always been a little bit on my mind.   
But I still feel that I'm far from my best, and that's what's really exciting for me, to be motivated, to keep improving.  Everybody has doubts.  We're human beings.  I always trust my ability and I believe in myself.   
 Q.  What did you think of Johanna?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Great player.  I was very impressed with her improvement taking from last year and seeing how well she's handling the pressure and going in big stages and playing really well.  That's impressive.  I'm sure we're going to see a lot more of her in the future.   
I think especially for England not having women player stan out, she's going to be the one, I think.   
 Q.  If you had a put a ranking potential on her, where do you think she might get to?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I think it's exciting to watch her journey and see happens.  She's definitely playing top 10 level right now.   
 Q.  Top 10 level?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I believe so.  She's in quarterfinals of a Tier 1 tournament; semifinal of a Grand Slam.  I think that's pretty good results.   
 Q.  We see now that some years ago Novak did such an amazing thing in Serbia.  Everyone was celebrating.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Novak what?   
 Q.  Novak, in Serbia we saw a lot people celebrating him and his achievements.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  I wanted to know in Belarus, how is it?  How do the people celebrate?  How is the celebration in Belarus happening now that Vika is doing so well?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, I don't think we celebrate as -- we don't have parades.  We had one after Olympic Games but I wasn't really there.  I know there was a lot people watching and a lot of support there, so I think we are kind of nation that is a little bit quiet.   
But definitely a lot of the support coming from my country.   
 Q.  You seemed particularly annoyed with yourself today.  Even got the code violation at one point.  Is that correct?  And where did you feel like you were falling short?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I mean, sometimes I cuss, and that's okay.  I got code violation, but that's fine.  Whatever is going to make me play better I'm going to do.  It's not the best thing to do, but whatever keeps me in the game, keeps me focused.   
I don't think that I was annoyed.  I was just trying to push myself.   
 Q.  (No microphone. )  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: No.  Just wanted to keep myself in check and keep going, keep the intensity high.   
 Q.  (No microphone -  regarding exchange at the net.)  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Actually, she spoke.  I said, Great match, and she congratulated me.  And for the matches before.  She is a very nice girl.  We had couple of very nice conversation in the locker rooms already and actually just talking maybe for once play doubles maybe somewhere in England.  She's very nice girl.   
 Q.  (No microphone - regarding how much fun tennis is right now.)  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: A lot more fun, because I make it fun for me.  I make my training exciting.  I understand the game a lot better and looking forward to improve.  I'm not in the chasing position anymore.  I'm just there to keep improving, do my best, and try to reach my full potential.   
I don't feel I'm in the stage of my career where I have to go for every tournament and keep hustling and try to prove somebody something.  I'm in the position I just want to enjoy.  I'm very much aware of my abilities.   
 Q.  (No microphone - question regarding Kuznetsova. )  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: She's a great player.  She's super talented, a very diverse player.  She's never afraid of anybody or big stages.   
I think we've seen her struggle sometimes with some results, but she knows how to handle herself in big moments.  Let's not forget, she's a two-time Grand Slam champion.   
 Q.  Vika, if you don't mind, something off court.  You are a huge soccer fan.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  You support to Paris St. Germain.  It's a something with your friendship with Gaël Monfils?  Why you support them?  How you're patient with soccer?  If you could talk about that?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, Gaël thing is one connection.  I also m friends with people who own the team.  They always host me so nicely.  One of my favorite players also Ibrahimovic, so it part of that.   
I think they're one of the best French teams and I also enjoy to be in Paris, so I go to their games.   
 Q.  (No microphone -- question regarding Brazilian players. )  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I do know the players, but I don't know the names.  I'm just going to reveal this.  I am very horrible with names.  If I don't remember somebody doesn't mean I don't know them.  It just goes in one ear and goes to other.   
So I'm very thankful for Grand Slams and tournaments who have credentials so I can look and get reminded.  It's just one of my flaws, I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT