BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2016
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. AZARENKA/K. Pliskova   
7-6, 1-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Good win.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Thank you.   
 Q.  How were you able to turn that match around?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, I think it was, you know, probably the middle of the set that was a little flat.  I had a few chances on her serve in the beginning of the second set and I didn't convert them.   
I think I lost a little bit of my focus, aggressivity that I was playing with before.  It's sometimes difficult to get back, so I tried to use my time at 4-1 to really regroup and start doing the things that were working before and really dial it in in the beginning of the third set.   
 Q.  Final against Serena.  What do you think are the keys to that one?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Keys?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Playing the best tennis.  You know, there's not going to be too many surprises, but definitely you have to step it up.  It's going to be exciting for me.   
We haven't played for a while.  Since Wimbledon, I believe.  I feel that I'm in a little bit different position right now.  For me, it's just exciting to play against the best player in the world right now.  This is what I worked really hard for.  I'm looking very much forward to.   
 Q.  You had three very close matches with her last year.  Any sense of you know in your mind what was keeping you from crossing the finish line in those?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I'll have to figure it out because I was close but it didn't go through.   
It's going to be a moment of figuring it out.   
 Q.  Have you seen those matches?  I mean, you said you were watching -- you saw the Kerber quarterfinal, but have you seen a tape of your matches against her at Wimbledon?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I have watched in the offseason.  I have watched in the offseason.  So I did see not all of them, but few of them, yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  What did you see?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Again, I had a lot of opportunities.  I think Wimbledon was one of the matches that in the third set she really -- she really outplayed me and she was just on every ball; everything was going her way.   
But I did have opportunities.  I won the first set.  I had few close games.  So just for me to know that there's always a chance it's a good thing, but I know that I have to go a step more to be able to be a winner on the other side.   
 Q.  Is it safe to say you're more confident going into Sunday's match than you were going into the match in Madrid and Paris and the match in Wimbledon?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Definitely more confident.  But I think, you know, as I said, confidence for me doesn't come from results but knowing that I'm prepared, knowing that I'm doing everything to put myself in the best position.  That's what brings me confidence.   
 Q.  Is there anything that you see when you watch maybe other people play Serena where you notice that there are certain things that you do specifically that no other player can do against her?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't know, but I see a lot of them losing before they step on the court.   
 Q.  How do you make sure you don't do that?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I'm not afraid of anybody.  I want -- I want to have those challenges.  Some people maybe want to avoid that, and I live for those moments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT