ROGERS CUP
August 12, 2015
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/P. Kvitova
  6‑2, 6‑3

Q. Vika, just your reaction after that match and just how happy were you with your level? Looked pretty good out there.
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I'm happy with the result. Definitely with the win. It's been a while since we played, and you know, playing against Top 5 player and showing a consistency on the court throughout the whole match is really good. 
I'm not trying to be too happy because I still have to play tomorrow. So I just take this today as a great experience, and definitely a good win. But I don't have too much time to enjoy it. But I think it was a good performance. I stayed‑‑ I stayed really focused throughout the whole match. And she's a type of player that you will never feel kind of very comfortable or in the rhythm because there is not much of the rhythm. But I'm happy with the way I played.

Q. And do you prefer, generally, to play against a player where there's a contrast of styles, like I think with Petra and her power or do you enjoy kind of the, you know, like a player who plays a similar style as yourself? Do you enjoy those matches? Just curious.
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't think our styles are way too different.

Q. No, they're not way different, but‑‑
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't know. It's‑‑ I guess it depends on, first of all, surface, conditions, on a lot of things. I never thought about that way, you know. 
I think on any given day some players can be more uncomfortable than the other ones, but to me I try to focus on my game and I think that's what really is kind of a key for me to have fun out there. 

Q. And a lot of rivalries when players don't play for a long time but then they get back into it and it's almost like they lock back into what it's like to play each other and you haven't played Petra for a very long time. I'm just curious if it felt like any other match or if it was like I haven't played this person forever or it felt familiar to you.
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Familiar and not really because there was sometimes, especially at the beginning, to get the rhythm going, she has a really heavy balls, but sometimes it seems like it's coming slow, but it's not. So there was definitely a little bit of adaptation and constant adaptation just because of her style, the way she plays.
So no, I felt quite new to play against her. 

Q. Would you say this is your biggest win since you got back on tour and if not what match would you say is your biggest win?
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't know. Honestly, I don't know actually. Ranking wise? 

Q. Because you had some really good matches against the top players. You won a few, you haven't won a few, but this was a really good win, you know, an emphatic win.
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I don't know. It's kind of difficult to judge that. I never really look at it that way, so I can't really give you an honest answer.

Q. Does it feel like a significant victory or just a second round‑‑
VICTORIA AZARENKA: It feels good to be able to, as I said, to have the consistency of a level that I showed today throughout the whole match, and to play against a top player and have that level, it definitely is something that I want to get more and more of that, especially before a tournament like US Open. You want to really test yourself out there and push yourself. So for me it was great experience.

Q. Even though your rankings dropped, do you still consider yourself a top player when you go on court? Is that your mentality?
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah. Everywhere I go I want to win, and I believe I can. So for me I don't think there is‑‑ it's actually exciting if I think any other way, because otherwise it's not fun for me. I'm there to compete. I'm being realistic on the way I play and what I need to improve, but when I go out there, I have a full belief in myself.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT