WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/B. Bencic
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   All the matches with Serena have been extremely competitive.   The next match that you have with her will be tomorrow.   Do you think it's going to help you to win having Sascha in your corner or does that have nothing to do with it whatsoever?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   We'll see.   We will see tomorrow.   I can't predict the future.   
   
 Q.   Well, you can guess.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Guess?   I'm not here to guess.   I'm here to work hard and play my game and try to stay focused.   But guessing is not in my job description.  
   
 Q.   When you have challenged Serena, and you have had some terrific matches with her, what's been the key for you?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   What?   
   
 Q.   When you have challenged Serena, and you have had some great matches with her, what has been the key for you?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, the key is for me, I still need to find it because I haven't beat her in the Grand Slam.   So for me, I still have to find that extra step to go a little bit further.  
But she's a great player.   I mean, one of the greatest players of all time.  
I just try to really focus on what I have to do instead of thinking who is on the other side and try to execute my game.   
I think I have been playing pretty well, trying to climb and put my game together more and more.   So I'm just trying to focus on tomorrow, is another day, another match, and keep it simple.  
   
 Q.   It was quite a feisty encounter when you played at Roland Garros.   Do you expect a fiery encounter again against Serena?   It's often how it is on court.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, I don't know.   As I said, I don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow.   You guys keep asking the same question (smiling).   
   
 Q.   So we're doing our jobs well?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yes, I'm sure you are.  
   
 Q.   How well do you think you're playing over the last, whatever, those nine days?   You had a good win today.   Bencic is a good player.   Talk about that.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It was my first time playing against her.   And I think she had that momentum of winning a lot of matches.   Obviously winning the tournament before that.   
So I was really just trying to stay focused on myself and I think it's important to just take in a Grand Slam one match at a time and stay in the moment.  
I think I have been improving from match to match, and so that's what I'm...   
   
 Q.   Confidence‑wise, are you almost there now?   100% confidence‑wise?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Up where?   
   
 Q.   When you're on the court.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Up where?   
   
 Q.   You tell me for you.   100%?   Do you feel like you're still working?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, for me, there will always be working, a process.   There is always a moment of improvement.   
I think that I have been having a lot of great matches and a lot of good experiences back to be like backtoback playing some matches. And being again in a quarterfinal of a Grand Slam, it's a pretty good step.   
But right now, I'm just trying to focus on one match at a time and really just give my best every day and always gonna be keep improving and putting the game together.   I think there is always big room to improve.  
   
 Q.   I know you hear a lot about Serena.   You have played Serena a ton of times.   But 2012, I think, was the semis here.   You were close there, too, no, against Serena?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Here?   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   We played, I think, a two‑set match.  
   
 Q.   You were close.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, close is not good enough.  
   
 Q.   But do you feel like you're pretty close to her if you do it the right way?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   As I said, close is not good enough.   I need to go out there and prove myself, and that's it.   To talk about it is pointless for me.   I need to go and do my work on the court.   Then maybe we can talk after.  
   
 Q.   What sort of satisfaction and developing confidence have you derived from working so hard to get back from the injuries that you had?   Because you have had some really debilitating situations and you've made this this far back.   What does that do for you?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's actually something that I quite enjoy, in a way.   It's a weird enjoyment, because it's a huge challenge in front of me.   
But that's something that also motivates me every day, to go through difficult hurdles and see how far I can push myself.   
So it's been very hard for me the last two years.   I think nobody had it harder than me probably, in a way.   
But I'm here today, and I'm really enjoying myself on the court.   I'm really working hard.   That part I enjoy.  
So as long as I'm having fun on the court, I'll keep working.   I'll keep working hard and try to improve.  
   
 Q.   Has that helped you psychologically on the court, to have overcome these hurdles, to have gotten as far as you've gotten?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   This part of my injury and a lot of things that happen to me in last two years have taught me a lot of lessons and helped me to grow and mature very quickly.   That's something, that step that I had really to take, and consider that I need to learn from this experience and really see how I can adapt and how I can learn from them.  
So that helped me tremendously to really grow myself as a person, as an athlete, and I feel different than I was before my injury.  
   
 Q.   What are some of those lessons that you just alluded to?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I'm just much more carefree.   You know, I'm very carefree.   I do what I want to do.   I say what I want to say.   That's something that being a young player and having success at an early age, you can get lost.   
That's one of the biggest lessons that I have had to learn is never to forget to be myself and accept for who you are and really try to be your own best self.   That was the biggest lesson I have learned.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT