MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 27, 2015
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/J. Jankovic
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   6‑1, 6‑1, but wasn't that ordinary when it came to that last game.   Talk about what you were going through mentally that last game.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I think when you're on the court it doesn't feel maybe the same way as it looks from the outside.   
At that moment I just really tried to stay focused and tried to find a way to stay in the game.   I had to save a couple of break points right away, and then there was, you know, this battle.  
I know that Jelena is a fighter.   Doesn't matter what score it is, she will not give up.   Some of those rallies she just went for it, and I felt like I wasn't that aggressive on some points.  
So I just had to stay focused and stay tough and try to find a way to finish the match.   You know, in those moments that's what I really look for right now, to be able to step up my game when it's needed.  
   
 Q.   You know, obviously two world No. 1, former No. 1s; no one is going to give up, right?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, definitely.   That's the mentality behind that.   It's not about the scoreboard.   It's really about trying to play point by point and really focusing on what you've got to execute, and, yeah, keep fighting.  
I think even the score looked easy.   It's never easy to be able to maintain this kind of focus and that kind of quality against a player like Jelena.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It was great.   There was such a warm welcome on the court today when I stepped out.   It's amazing, you know, to play in front of the crowd.   It's always much more entertaining and also much more motivation for us.   I really appreciate that.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding facing another year‑end No.1 player.)  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I have been pretty lucky with the draws this year, I guess.   I never had an easy draw pretty much my whole career.   I'm not expecting anything to come easy, because I have to climb my way back to the top.   
That's the way I have to do it, you know.   I actually think it's a good thing for me to really play at this high level and go through tough opponents to really improve and get my game and match endurance in the important moments against tough opponents.  
   
 Q.   You had to save 13 break points.   That was obviously the key to the match.   What do you think was the difference in those moments?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, I think there was more than that.   I don't think you go to the match and say, The key to the match is to save break points.  
It's really to execute your game plan and to be able to do the right things on the important moments and really to take control.   Not to really wait for a mistake, but really take action.   
I think that was important, and that's what I have done well to be able to convert them.  
   
 Q.   Staying calm, focusing on the moments that you're down, also seems like today you did that very well?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah, I feel like I stayed composed.   I was very sure what I had to do, and I was really executing that.  
   
 Q.   On Twitter you said seven match points.   Oh, my lucky number.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah.   Yeah, I didn't really know that, but, you know, it was a fun stat, so I just said that.   
   
 Q.   Seven.   Why is seven your lucky number?   Any rhyme or reason?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I just like that number.  
   
 Q.   Do you play craps in Vegas a lot?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I don't gamble, actually.   I never gamble.   I play poker with my friends and we have a dealer, but I never go gamble for money.   I just earn them.   
To earn them it's not easy, so I don't want to waste them.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   My wife says the same thing.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Yeah.   (Smiling.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT