UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2015
Drew Douglas
Aaron Grubb
Dalton Sturm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Old Dominion - 36 UTSA - 31   
 Q.  Drew, can you talk about their offense, specifically the play of their quarterback?  He seemed like he was unstoppable at times. 
DREW DOUGLAS: Yeah, all the credit to him.  He was very elusive and did a really good job of throwing it to his receivers and letting them make plays.  We've got to play better.  We've got to contain them better.  We knew that he was quick and everything. We've just got to execute.
Q. Dalton, they seemed to be pressing you a lot.  Do you think that was more the D-line or the coverage holding on or was it a little of both?
DALTON STURM: I mean, they were making good plays.  They were getting me good -- I mean, they gave me time to throw the ball.  There was good protection mostly, with everything.  I mean, I've got to find a way to get the ball out of my hands, and if not, break out of there and make some plays with my feet.
Q. Dalton, can you tell me on the second-to-last drive where you came up, where you rushed the ball on fourth down, you came up like a yard short. Did you slip or something, or what happened there?
DALTON STURM: No, I thought I was closer than I was, and I tried to get between them.  I should have stayed up and fought for the yardage, but I thought I was closer than I was, and I tried to slip between them.  I've just got to know the field better.
Q. Can you run us through the last two plays of the last offensive drive, the third-down pass and the fourth-down pass; what were you looking for there and what ended up happening on those plays?
DALTON STURM: Yeah, we had a guy -- I've just got to get David (Morgan) the chance.  He's one of our best receivers who's going to get the ball.  I've got to give him a chance to make a play on the ball.  The one before that I had a carry, just kind of overthrew it.  Probably should have tried to get the first (down) instead of trying to take the home run.  But again, can't look back, just got to keep looking forward.
Q. Aaron, can you talk about the resiliency of the team?  You guys came out and fought hard today.  Talk about the overall mentality of the team right now.
AARON GRUBB: Yeah, I mean, we're definitely all down.  We're definitely tired of losing.  But we never quit.  We never stop fighting.  That's one thing I really love about this team.  I was telling some guys in the locker room that this has been my favorite year.  We haven't won hardly any games, but I feel like it's a family and which we win and lose together, and it means a lot to each and every one of these guys, especially the seniors.  We want to win really, really bad.  We've come up close, come up short, at least four or five times this year, but we just never quit.  We believe that we're going to win, and even though it hasn't happened in a while, it's not like we're going to change our mentality.
Q. Dalton, everything you're going through, the plays that you make, some good ones, some bad ones, how are you learning from this?  Do the coaches pull you aside?  Do you watch the film?  Is it like a school session almost when you go back there?  How are you learning and what are you learning this year?
DALTON STURM: I mean, it's been a great experience, but yeah, throughout the year, I mean, whether I make good plays or bad plays, it's just going straight back to the film and just trying to learn from what you do good and what you do bad and what you can do better.  But like I told everybody, there's only so much film can do.  Game-time experience is going to be the main thing.  I've just got to keep working and keep getting better.
Q. Do you feel like you've learned a lot this year?
DALTON STURM: Yeah, for sure.  I feel like I've learned a lot, especially pocket-presence wise.  Just a lot of things, being able to stand in there and doing good things, trusting the linemen to do what they've been doing for me.  They've been doing a great job.  Just got to keep building and keep going back to the film and learning more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT