WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2007
Anna Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Anna Fitzpatrick.  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Must be very pleased.   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Yeah, definitely.   
  
  Q.  How surprised are you?  Two matches in a day, some task.   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Yeah, I didn't realize this morning I was going to have to play two.  When I found out, I was quite relaxed about it.   
 I just went to calm down, spoke to my coaches.  I was fine going on court.  I was ready and prepared.   
  
  Q.  What does it feel like to be in the semifinals?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Really good.  Also coming into the tournament, I knew that I could get a long way in the tournament.  So, like, it's not a huge surprise to me.   
  
  Q.  Is it important to feel tonight when you sort of finish that you've not achieved everything you've set out to do?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  You don't want to feel like this is the achievement, to reach the semifinal.   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  No, no.  I'm taking each match at a time.  First round, I mean, coming in the first day I didn't know if I was going to reach Round 2.   
 I'm just taking one match at the same time.  If I win tomorrow, great, then I can start thinking about the final.  Until then, I've still got another match to play.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell us a bit about being in Monte-Carlo, how long you've been there-Carlo?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Yeah.  I started in Monte-Carlo in about August, September last year, which is when the academy started.  Before that I was in Leeds, Leeds LTA academy.  It was the same three coaches there, then started at Monte-Carlo.   
 Training there is really good.  So many of the top players, like top 10 players, train there.  It's a great atmosphere, really good experience every time I'm there.   
  
  Q.  If you get any winnings, is it tax free?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Don't get winnings in juniors.   
  
  Q.  In terms of the area, Sheffield, is that where all the flooding has been?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Yeah.  Like two minutes from my house.  My house is halfway up a hill, so that's fine.  At the bottom of that hill is where a boy got swept away in a park and killed.  All around the hill where my house is is really flooded.   
  
  Q.  Any other family or friends been flooded at all then?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  I haven't spoken to -- except for my immediate family, I haven't spoken to any of my relatives really since I've been down here.  I haven't been home for a few weeks either, so I haven't seen it.   
  
  Q.  Are your family watching today?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  No.  I played the senior doubles last weekend.  They came down to watch that.  They're all at work this week so they can't come.  Maybe tomorrow they might be able to.  I'm not sure yet.   
  
  Q.  Your brother's nickname for you, how long have you had that one?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Just developed over time.  I've got so many nicknames at home, it's ridiculous.   
  
  Q.  Go on.   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  I get called seriously everything.  My oldest brother calls me Girl or It.  I get called Deirdre or Gertrude or Trudy.  They're all just completely random.  Just made up out of nothing, I suppose.   
  
  Q.  You're the youngest?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Yeah, the youngest.  I've got three older brothers.   
  
  Q.  No sisters?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  No sisters, no.   
  
  Q.  Any there more nicknames in relation to tennis, apart from Fat Bloke and Big Nuts?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  I don't think so.  Those are the main ones.  I don't think there is.  They always refer to me as being a guy.  Don't know why.   
  
  Q.  Has it been difficult being away from your family or from home?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  No.  I mean, when I was 12, I moved to Leeds to go to a boarding school.  So between 12 and 16, 17, I was only home some weekends.   
 I've been used to traveling with tournaments and with school since I was 12.  I got used to it.  Even before that I used to go for tennis camps and stuff to Bisham Abbey, so I got used to it young.  I don't mind it.  It's also nice to be away from my brothers.   
  
  Q.  You've not played that many junior events, have you?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  No, I haven't.   
  
  Q.  Will you be playing New York?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  No, I don't think I will.  This was basically my only junior tournament this year.  Just focus on this.  All the rest is seniors now.   
  
  Q.  The academy, you're learning your trade on tour, in Monte-Carlo for seven weeks.  What have you done this year, how much you travel, your itinerary?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  It's good.  It's kind of scheduled really well.  We do like two-week or three-week training block with mostly physical work and a little bit of tennis on court to get strong, fit and fast.   
 Then we go and do a block of tournaments.  At the end of a block, we'll have maybe one or two weeks and rest where we go home and relax with our families and stuff, then basically start again with another physical block.   
  
  Q.  Monte-Carlo is not the cheapest place in the world to live.  Do you live in quite a small apartment?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Because we're only there for seven or eight weeks of the year, we stay -- it's a bit like a holiday resort.  Just get the rooms for like two weeks at a time when we're there.  It's actually in the south of France where we stay.   
 It's only 10 minutes from the country club.  It's not actually in Monte-Carlo.  Where we eat in the club in Monte-Carlo, it's really nice.   
  
  Q.  Are you funded by the LTA?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Yeah, they do give us funding.  They've helped us quite a lot, the LAT.   
  
  Q.  It sounds very glamorous living in Monte-Carlo.  Is it?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Of course, there are nice aspects to it.  The view and surroundings are unbelievable.  But then when you're training there, it wouldn't make a difference where you are in the world, where you train.   
 It's just on a tennis court, same as any tennis court in the world.  Obviously it's nice when you come off court to have those surroundings, that atmosphere around you.   
  
  Q.  Would you hope now the LTA would perhaps increase your funding?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  It would be nice.  It would be nice, yeah.  I mean, I don't really deal with any of that financial side of it.   
 THE MODERATOR:  As a board member of the LTA, I'll can tell you that LTA is very happy to fund success.  Anna is success, and a great result is exactly what we're looking for in funding the young stars of tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Is it Felix Stowe next week?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Yeah, Felix Stowe 25, then Canada for three weeks for Canada for challengers and 110.   
  
  Q.  Do you know who you're playing in the semifinal yet?   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  No.   
  
  Q.  They're on court.   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  They're both good players definitely.   
 THE MODERATOR:  You have a doubles match this evening.   
 ANNA FITZPATRICK:  Playing at half 6, maybe again after that.  If I win, play again.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT