NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 25, 2008
Erik Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The number one overall pick in 2006 Erik Johnson of the St. Louis Blues is with us.  How are you? 
 ERIK JOHNSON:  Good, how are you? 

 Q.  Good head gear. 
 ERIK JOHNSON:  Yeah, I thought you'd switch it up a little bit. 

 Q.  How has the season gone for you?  And at this point do you feel like you've established yourself to the point where you've earned a little bit of a holiday among all the stars in the game? 
 ERIK JOHNSON:  Yeah, it's nice, any time you get to come to a festivity like this with all the great players and everything, it's a lot of fun. 
 It's a pretty good deal that the NHL puts on.  And it's a big honor to be here, too. 

 Q.  Blues have struggled of late, but overall the season, do you feel like within the group you guys have accomplished a lot and there is still more to give? 
 ERIK JOHNSON:  Yeah, we have a great bunch of guys.  We've kind of gone on a skid lately, seven straight losses.  But the way we played in the middle of the season, we put together a pretty good run.  All the guys we have in the room, we're certainly capable of making the playoffs, I think.  I think we're going to turn it around.  And it's a great place to play in St. Louis, and I've had a lot of fun. 

 Q.  All right.  Enough of the seriousness about the regular season; let's talk about this weekend.  How much fun are you going to have?  You get to team up with an old mate in Jack Johnson.  There are seven Americans, six Canadians and three Swedes in the Young Stars competition.  It's a good weekend for the Americans? 
 ERIK JOHNSON:  Oh, it will be a lot of fun.  I'm pretty good buddies with Peter Mueller, and Patrick Kane and Jack.  So it's going to be a lot of fun this weekend.  The Young Stars game they're kind of mixing us into the All-Star Game, being in the same dressing room with some of the guys.  I think we're all looking forward to it, and we're all pretty excited. 

 Q.  Seriously, have you looked at the rosters?  The West should dominate the East, right? 
 ERIK JOHNSON:  We hope so.  But there are some pretty good players over there. 

 Q.  Are you concerned the East has a physical presence that you usually don't see at an All-Star Game?  Lucic and Clarkson tend to want to rough it up?  Could we see that on 3 on 3? 
 ERIK JOHNSON:  I don't know what they'll throw at us.  But hopefully it should be a fun game, and a bunch of goals go around, but everyone's looking forward to it. 

 Q.  Good stuff, enjoy the weekend in Atlanta. 
 ERIK JOHNSON:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT