AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2001
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question. 
 
 
Q.  How disappointing?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: I'm very disappointed.  Kind of a freak thing that happened.  It's my finger and just bad timing. 
 
Q.  Your finger, did you say?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, I tried to catch a ball on the warmup and it hit me right on the nail and I guess the doctor said probably tore some ligaments in my finger.  I can't really bend it.  I had a tough time trying to hold a tennis racquet. 
 
Q.  That's in your left hand?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: My backhand.  Yeah.  
 
Q.  How much of a trouble did that cause, do you think?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: Lots.  I could not hit a backhand the whole match.  I really struggled.  I had a lot of pain.  Kind of mentally it's tough, too, trying to hold the racquet.  So I think it affected me quite drastically. 
 
Q.  Have you got any kind of prognosis on how long it will take to heal?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: It's hard to say.  I do actually  -- I have to try to play doubles tomorrow so I have to see tomorrow.  If it is still sore tomorrow, I'll probably go get some X-rays done, something.  See if there's anything wrong with it.  
 
Q.  So you just went to sort of catch a ball?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, yep.  Hit me on the top of the finger on the nail.  
 
Q.  Couldn't have been worse timing, I guess, could it?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: Geez, no.  It's very disappointing.  I mean, I would have loved to have given myself the best opportunity to win that match.  You know, I was feeling great going in there.  I was excited to play the match.  You know, it's always nice to play the young guys and see how good they are and how well I can compete against them.  So from that aspect, it's very disappointing.  
 
Q.  He was pretty happy with the way he played in the third and fourth set. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: I'm sure he was, yeah.  He played solid.  Definitely he played better.  I mean, didn't really have to do anything in the first set.  He didn't play that well in the second.  Then he got a lot better in the third and fourth.  He moved around well, hit the ball well, competed good.  I mean he played solid, yeah.  
 
Q.  Is that the first time that sort of thing has happened to you? Tennis players have had injuries before. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: It's the first time with the finger thing, yeah.  
 
Q.  Sorry, I missed your analysis of the injury.  What exactly happened?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: Oh, I just  -- in the warm-up, I was trying to hit serves.  I tried to catch   -- a serve came and I tried to stop it.  The ball hit me on the top of the finger on the nail, and the doctor says probably tore a ligament in the finger.  He's not 100 percent sure exactly what it is, but it came up bruised pretty quickly and I had a really tough time trying to hold the tennis racquet. 
 
Q.  Will it keep you out of the doubles?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: I'm not sure at this stage.  
 
Q.  Did he play like you thought he would play?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, very much so, yeah.  
 
Q.  Did you think he was better than you had expected?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I thought he was a good player.  I mean I knew from talking to people and watching him play before, I knew that he was  -- he hit the ball very well.  He moved well, good ground strokes.  I was pretty confident in going into that match and believing that I had the ability to win.  So obviously I'm disappointed.  I still believe that I could have won if I had played a little bit better.  But, I mean, he's still a good competitor.  He hits the ball and plays well.  
 
Q.  You were actually in pain throughout the match, then? Or is it just a kind of mental distraction of worrying about what you've done exactly?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: It's a bit of both.  It's a bit of both.  It took me the first set to just overcome sort of the pain thing.  And then, you know, I got used to that a bit, but there were a lot of shots  -- it was just the backhand side.  Just every time I tried to grip the handle, I had a lot of pain.  So it's difficult when you have to try to change the way you play so quickly for, you know, for certain reasons.  It changes your whole way  -- you know, I wasn't able to hit my backhand well today so I wasn't able to get the opportunities to hit more forehands which is what I like to do. That's the way I have to play against him to beat him.  And the backhand killed me.  Didn't give me any opportunity or any chance to win. 
 
Q.  You've always had a two-handed backhand?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: Always.  Yeah.  I don't think I could have hit a one-handed today. 
 
Q.  When you were in Juniors, did you start  --?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA: Always, I always had a two-handed.  My one hand's pretty awful actually.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT