WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2004
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Wayne Ferreira.  Who would like to ask the first question?  
 
 
Q.  I suppose it's a sad way to go out, especially a match that you might have won. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, it was a little disappointing.  You know, I felt I was in control most of the first and second set, and played a bad game to lose the second.  Just lost a bit of energy really.  Kind of struggled to get motivated to play.  Very disappointing, yeah, really didn't feel like I should have lost.  
 
Q.  You were so much in control for the first set and a half.  Did you go out thinking, this is not the kind of court I want to end my Wimbledon career on, Court 7 on a quiet day?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  It was really disappointing there weren't that many people out there.  What can you do about it?  That's what the weather's done for us.  I'm used to playing in those sort of conditions.  It's not the end of the world.  I shouldn't have lost the match.  It really wasn't where I was and who was around.  
 
Q.  In your last press conference, you said from the present crop of African players, you cannot see anyone winning a Grand Slam in the next 10 years.  What do you think can be done about the game in Africa?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I think you asked me do I see any future -- anybody that can do well right now.  No, I don't.  I think that there are some possibilities of younger kids around 12 and 13.  They need to find the money to be able to send the kids to travel around the world and play on the junior events, have the right coaches, the right facilities, you know, give them the opportunities that the other kids in the rest of the world get.  Right now, you know, they're not really getting that opportunity.  It's a little difficult when you don't have the resources to allow them to at least have the same chances as anybody else.  
 
Q.  After your retirement, are you going to engage in tennis in Africa, to raise the profile of tennis in Africa?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I'd like to.  You know, I mean, my first priority would be South Africa first, help them, hopefully, you know, bring somebody to take over for me as soon as possible.  There are some good possibilities.  There are some good people there now who are trying very hard.  Obviously, the finances are a little bit difficult.  And from there, you know, if we can build up something, you know, hopefully we can start working on the whole of Africa.  But it's a very difficult, difficult job.  I mean, it takes a lot of time, effort, resources.  And it's not that easy. 
 
Q.  You said this week that you hoped to be back here in the future.  Obviously it won't be as a player, may not be for the next couple of years.  In what capacity do you see yourself back here at Wimbledon?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I mean, I'd like to come watch at least.  I'd like to bring my son when he's a little bit bigger, when he understands what it's all about.  I'd like to come and show him where I've been for all these years, what I've done, hopefully get him involved in it somehow.  But, you know, right now I don't really have anything that's set in stone that I can say I'm going to be here for.  
 
Q.  International Men's Tennis Association, that's not a good future for you?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  It was never done for me.  It was something that was made to help the players, and it was for their benefit.  It wasn't for my benefit.  I didn't have any interest in doing it as a career.  I wanted to get it up and running, make the players understand that they needed to do something about the game, and it was their responsibility.  And I've left it at that.  It's still their responsibility. 
 
Q.  Can we have an assessment of Mayer? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  The guy obviously played well enough to win.  I was in control of the first two sets, didn't really think too much of his game.  I still don't really think -- I think he's good.  I don't think he's great.  He doesn't really have anything powerful or anything that stands out.  You know, fairly good all around.  I think the reason why I lost was more my doing than his.  
 
Q.  One- or two-word answers.  Best player you've ever faced? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Agassi.  
 
Q.  Not Pete?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, because I beat him several times (smiling). 
 
Q.  Key to your incredible ability to beat Pete?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Type of game.  It all depends on type of game.  
 
Q.  Best venue you've ever played in?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Here. 
 
Q.  Worst venue you've ever played in? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I don't really want to be too mean to anybody.  
 
Q.  Least favorite. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  There's been a few.  
 
Q.  Toughest single stroke faced?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Stroke faced?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Agassi's backhand.  
 
Q.  And toughest win of all, 15 great years, a word or two to sum up that captures it?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I wouldn't say it would be a word.  I'd just say that I've been very privileged to be able to spend 15 years doing something that I love.  And it's going to be sad to leave it.  
 
Q.  You still have two more big events, the Olympics and the US Open.  What do you set yourself as targets for those? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  The Olympics, I'm not actually in.  I didn't get in there.  I'm going to try for a wildcard, so we'll see what happens there.  The US Open, I think just to play it.  This was my last one really, you know, for me that I wanted to play.  I mean, I love coming here.  US Open I like.  It's okay.  I think for me it will be more fun for me to take my family there and spend the last tournament with them playing it there.  This was the last really big one that I wanted to come and play. 
 
Q.  Is there a way you're going to go out or you'll just walk out the gate and that's it?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Just walk out the gate.  Hopefully I'll be walking out the gate a little later than first round.  You know, I'm not too worried about that.  I think I'll be back.  I'm still going to be around.  I still want to be involved in tennis.  I'll be coming back here - obviously in a different capacity.  But I think I'll still be a part of this game.  
 
Q.  You said you have regrets that you didn't win a Grand Slam or get to a final.  How will you have done things differently?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I think I played a lot -- I played too many tournaments when I was younger.  I traveled too much and too many places and played too much.  I didn't set enough time aside to focus really on the Grand Slams.  I just made bad planning on that side.  I didn't focus enough.  I didn't prepare enough for the Grand Slam.  So that.  And then, you know, I've had some unlucky years.  Some years I felt I could have done it, just got a little unlucky, didn't play well enough.  It's been tough for me to play seven matches, five sets.  I've always had problems with the concentrating to last that long, so there's always been that problem, too.  
 
Q.  Will you be encouraging your kids to go into tennis or other sports?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  My son says he wants to play tennis now.  He wants to be a tennis player.  I don't think he really knows what he's talking about.  He said he wants to be that or a doctor.  We'll see.  I want to at least give him the opportunity.  I think I have something to offer him.  I'd like him to play.  But he has to make up his own mind.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT