TMS - STUTTGART
November 3, 2000
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Wayne, please.  
 
Q. How do you explain playing so well these days?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Can't say. Just, I guess, really just trying to not really have too
much pressure. I guess my belief is that if I'm not out here, not playing well, trying
hard, I'd rather be at home. I'm missing being with my family, so I've got to make it
worthwhile. 
 
Q. Don't you always do that?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: More so these days. You know, with having the baby, getting towards
what I guess is the end of my career, just thinking about a time to retire, I guess maybe
that also makes me play well because I maybe don't have that much longer to go. There's
that side. I want to be able to retire from the game feeling good about what it is that
I've done rather than, say, finishing like I've been playing the last couple of years.  
 
Q. Practice-wise, have you been changing anything lately?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, no. Practice always helps. The fitness level is quite important for
me, which I try and work on. It's a little tough sometimes because I have a lot of pain in
various parts of my body. But the practicing side, you know, normally when I went home, I
didn't really play much. But now, living in Berkeley, where I am, I go out every day and I
practice with the college team. It's like practice, but it's fun practice, yet I'm still
playing. I enjoy it. I'm getting practice with enjoyment in it. I seem to be playing quite
a lot. I think that helps my game, continue playing all the time, and not really take any
breaks.  
 
Q. Is there something you would like to be able to change in your career?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Oh, there's a lot of things I would have done differently in my career. 
 
Q. What, for example?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I wouldn't have played as much. I wouldn't have traveled half as much.
I probably would have done different training when I did do it. I mean, there's a lot of
little aspects in hindsight down the line you think you would have changed that would have
been good for me. Thinking about it, traveling and playing as much as I did was really a
bad thing. 
 
Q. You're not the only one to say that towards the end of their career. What keeps the
players to play so much?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think the schedule is very tough. I think the new ranking, for me, if
it had been at the beginning of my career would have been perfect. It would have saved me
playing a lot more. I think I would have done a lot better because always for me the
important thing is that if I know that a match counts or is important, every single match
that I play, I seem to put in a better effort. But with the old ranking, it seemed that it
didn't really matter how you did from week to week because there was always next week. If
one week didn't count, doesn't matter, there was next week. Now the difference is that the
Masters Series and the Grand Slams all count. So for me, that's a big thing. 
 
Q. On the other hand, you're not that old. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. I could play for a few more years. It all depends on how I feel, if
my body can withstand the abuse that I give it, if the enjoyment level can stay there, you
know, if I can just handle being away from my family as much as I am. 
 
Q. You don't have a coach at the moment, do you?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, no.  
 
Q. Do you plan on trying to get one?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I have been working a couple weeks with Mats Wilander, but he's
been really busy this year with moving his house and playing in the seniors. He's actually
coming to Paris, to Bercy. 
 
Q. So on and off?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, it's only been about three weeks this year, four weeks this year.
I can't really consider him my coach, no. But maybe next year we can organize a little bit
more. He can, you know, spend some more time. It's up in the air. We really haven't
discussed it. At this stage, there's really nothing set in stone at all.  
 
Q. If I'm right, I remember you saying when you were younger, when you went into the
Top 10, that you were not ready to go to the Top 10 at that time. Do you feel with your
game now, with your knowledge, you could be a Top 10 player right now?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I always felt I've always deserved to be in the Top 10. I believed I
did well enough to be there and beat enough people. I think maybe just because it happened
so fast, it was so easy getting there. I had no pressure. Then when I got there, all of a
sudden it changed, and then I was supposed to beat everybody. It became a little bit more
difficult. Now, these days, I'm ranked 18. It's not really that bad, but I feel I could be
a lot higher. I feel like I've had a good year this year. I mean, it's been a better year
than, say, the past two or three years. Yet I don't feel that I'm playing at my best. I'm
still not winning any tournaments. I'm still not being as consistent as I would like. I
still have my bad days. So I feel that even though I'm 18, I could be ranked a lot higher
this year.  
 
Q. And you may have to face in the next round the French player, Sebastien Grosjean. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I've never played with him before. I never hit with him before. He
seems tough, beats a lot of players, runs down a lot of balls. He plays a bit like Chang I
guess on the retrieving side. It's going to be a similar match whichever one I play. I
think he's great. He's achieved a lot for his game and he's tough to beat.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT