TMS - CINCINNATI
August 8, 2000
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Wayne? 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, I guess. It was pretty close. I did well to come back, fight
back, and then got into the breaker. I didn't really play that well in the breaker. I was
up 2-1, two serves, and played two pretty ordinary points. So it was just a couple of bad
points in the breaker.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, not necessarily. I mean it's just the way -- the type of tennis he
plays. He did get a lot better in the second set. Not that I didn't get worse. But in the
first set I definitely had chances.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, it's demoralizing when you put in a really shitty serve. You
deserve to get killed. The serve that I served was awful. So I wasn't really -- I mean I
would hope that he would do that to it. 
 
Q. He played very much like a front -runner. Is it difficult when you lose a tiebreaker
and you played so well? (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It's tough. He plays so fast. Before you can even think about, you
know, what just happened, you're down a break already. That's what happened. I didn't
really get time to get back in there again and to focus on the second set and start
concentrating on that. And before I knew it, I was down a break already. It's tough to
come back.  
 
Q. Does he seem to sense that and play you faster?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: He just plays fast the whole time.  
 
Q. Is there any way to slow that down?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, I mean you can take your own time on your own serve. You can take
more time. But he still plays fast in between the points.  
 
Q. Of all the great players you've played, how do you rank him?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I think the difficulty that I have is that I just don't match up
that well against him. He has a great record; he's won a lot of tournaments; he's beaten
everybody; and he's been on the top for such a long time. So I mean, yeah, he's one of the
best -- probably the best player around. But, you know, it's hard for me to say if he's
the best because of just the way that I play, he likes. There are people like Pete, for
instance, who people can't play and hate playing against him. I like playing against him.
So it's just a matter of matchups. 
 
Q. Why is it a bad matchup?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Because I keep getting my butt kicked; that's why. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. How do you think he played tonight?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Ordinary. I didn't play that great either. I think the tennis was
pretty ordinary. It wasn't a lot of good points, there were no long ones, everything was
quick, I didn't get any returns back. He got a few. When he got them back, I missed them.
It was pretty ordinary tennis. 
 
Q. Did you have a specific game plan coming in tonight to play him?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I wanted to make a lot of returns, which I obviously didn't, and
I wanted to keep the ball back a lot, which I guess I didn't. So my game plan didn't
really work out. I just played awful. I didn't play well at all from the word go.  
 
Q. Any idea why?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It's hard to say. Maybe it is because playing against him, having lost
so many times. The thing is it just -- the points just go so fast. Whenever I play against
him, it just goes by so quick. Before you know it, you're down a set, a break. There's
just no way. It's tough for me to really get into it like I do against other people. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Oh, yeah. It's kind of a bit of a laughable situation for me. Just
because I seem to do the same thing every time I play him, even no matter how hard I try
to make it different, it always ends up being the same. So all I can do is keep laughing. 
 
Q. Did you ever get the thought that, you know, the odds are against him when you go
out there in a way? He's won so many.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I sure hope so, yeah. I would just like to actually play well once. I
don't think I've ever played well against him to what I believe is good tennis, or tennis
that I would like to play. Whatever reason it is, I don't know. But I'd like to play well
once, to see if I do play well, if I really have a chance.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I can't. I don't know yet.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Various. Lots of various reasons.  
 
Q. Your injuries or?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I will not discuss it at this stage. Thank you.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT