WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everybody. Wayne Ferreira.  
 
Q. Satisfying result?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Can't complain about that one at all. 
 
Q. Were you happy with the way you kept focus? You lost the first set, under
controversial circumstances, you could say, then kept going?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah. I played solid. I did a thing that was important for me: get
through my serve games as easily as I can, then focus my attention on trying to make him
play a lot of volleys off the serve. I mean, his serve is so good. He's not really that
used to the ball coming back a lot. I made him play a lot. I think after a while of him
playing a lot of volleys, he sort of got a little scared on his serve, didn't serve as
well as normal.  
 
Q. Would you rate this as one of your best wins at Wimbledon?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Absolutely, yeah. 
 
Q. The best?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I've had good ones. I've played well in other matches. But as far as
the focus and playing the type of game that I wanted to, yeah, definitely.  
 
Q. You seemed to be reading his serve particularly well. Looked like footballs to you. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That happens very rarely in your life. Got to take every opportunity
while you can. 
 
Q. You didn't seem that happy after the first set. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Are you sure (laughter)?  
 
Q. A little irritated. We heard some of the language. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Wasn't English, was it (laughter)? I mean, I get very frustrated. I
always seem to feel that the umpire does nothing until it gets extremely close. I feel
that the linesmen are very good; they're there for a reason. If they do make mistakes,
which they generally do, like everybody, why pick that time to do it all the time? I feel
that it happens always at those particular times. It's very frustrating.  
 
Q. You're talking in general?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I'm generalising.  
 
Q. Happened in the Wayne Arthurs match at the same point.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Always seems to happen right at the wrong times, always when it's
breakpoint or set point or late in the match or tiebreaker. Very rarely do you ever get it
to happen first game or 1-Love in the third, 1-All. It always seems in my case, always
seems to happen at that stage. I don't really feel that it's necessary to happen. If it's
not going to happen or it's going to happen, it's going to happen all the time or not what
I feel is at the wrong time. 
 
Q. What would you like, no overrules?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, overruling is fine. I mean, I feel that they could overrule a lot
more earlier in the matches. It seems as soon as it gets closer to 5-4 or 5-All, that's
when they try to focus more on the overrule. If they're going to do that, they should do
that the whole match and not, in my opinion, wait until it gets close. 
 
Q. You were obviously annoyed to the point of incense. The racquet ended in two bits.
You already got a racquet abuse warning. Were you worried about going a step further?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, no. I mean, I was sort of, I guess, surprised by the weakness of my
racquet. I didn't really hit it that hard. The next minute it's in two pieces. It kind of
scared me a little bit more than anything else because I had no intentions of doing that.
I did want it to hit the chair. Breaking it in two like that, I didn't want to do that. I
didn't feel that I was that angry to get to that stage. I was frustrated, but I wasn't
angry. I was disappointed in the outcome of that. I didn't want to do it again, obviously,
because it's not always nice to have those situations. 
 
Q. Nobody seems, of the top players, to like to play against you, including Sampras.
How do you explain that?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: You shouldn't be asking me, you should ask them. I don't know. I mean,
I have a lot of good days and I have a lot of bad days. I feel like I have a lot less
pressure playing people like them. I have nothing to lose. Today I had absolutely nothing
to lose. I was out there enjoying myself. I had a good first round. I played well. I'm
enjoying myself. I have no pressure anymore. My tennis is fun. I think that's the stage
when I play well and I enjoy myself. That's when it makes it tougher for the top guys to
play me. 
 
Q. Is it a similar situation to the one that you had in The Masters a few years ago in
Frankfurt when you were called at the last minute?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah.  
 
Q. You came there, almost beat everybody, Kafelnikov. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That was a different situation. I was still in the Serengeti at that
stage, even while I was playing tennis. I was enjoying the whole atmosphere. I didn't have
any pressure. I was on holiday in the middle of nowhere. I came there and was happy to be
there, but didn't really worry too much about the outcome. Those are the situations when I
play well. My problem is I put far too much pressure on myself. When it gets to the stage
where I feel it's important for me to do well or I should do well or I have a good draw,
those are the stages when I play poor tennis. In situations where I have nothing to lose,
where I'm just enjoying myself, going out and just playing the game, those are the times I
play well. 
 
Q. Usually you're quite a measured sort of guy. At one point there you seemed to be
almost out of control a bit verbally. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, I do get that way. I have a bad streak in me.  
 
Q. Did you feel kind of almost like you lost it a bit?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yes, yes. 
 
Q. Were you quoted correctly in The Independent this morning saying the draw was
rigged?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Absolutely not, no. 
 
Q. Absolutely not?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Not. That was not what I said, no.  
 
Q. What did you say, if I may ask?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: My opinion of the situation is that I think Corretja and Costa have a
point. I think that they've played great tennis. They're ranked 10 in the world. They
deserve to be 10 in the world. If Wimbledon is going to not seed them, then I think the
French should not seed the serve-and-volleyers. I think they've proved themselves to be
the 10th best tennis player in the world. Why should he not get the chance to be seeded? I
think if they should do it here, you know, then there are a lot of clay court specialists
at the French who hope to play a lot of the seeds. There are a lot of so-called grass
court specialists, like myself, that sometimes it's nice to play certain seeds. We don't
get that opportunity here. 
 
Q. What do you expect from the rest of the tournament after today? You said you played
a very good game today. Do you expect to get a lot more of this play in this tournament?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, I think so. I don't really even know who I have to play. 
 
Q. You will play Andrei Pavel. Do you know Pavel?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. Never played him before. He's played well so far this year. I have
no idea what I'm going to do, how I'm going to play. I'm happy. I played two good matches
so far. I beat somebody who to me is a great tennis player. I'm just going to enjoy that
moment for a little while, then think about the rest later. 
 
Q. You said it always seems to happen to you on set point. Do you think umpires are
biased against you specifically?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Absolutely not, no. That's not what I'm saying at all. 
 
Q. Do you regret your outburst now? Do you think you'll apologize?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I always regret my outbursts whenever I do them. A lot of times I do -
not always - but sometimes I do apologize. 
 
Q. Have you thought about doing it in Afrikaans maybe?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That's all fine and dandy, but then the umpire isn't going to
understand a word I'm saying, is he? Doesn't really help anything. I was talking to him. I
was not talking to myself. 
 
Q. So you wanted to get your point of view?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Exactly.  
 
Q. Did you apologize to him at the end?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I didn't. 
 
Q. Why do you think umpires seem to impose themselves at tactically critical points? Do
you think it's because they want to have a sense of importance?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. I think they're just trying to do what they're trying to do as best
they can. The umpires that we have on the tour, and the umpire that I had in particular
today, is a great umpire. I have no problems with him whatever. I think it was more of a
frustrating thing for me, not really against him, but just frustrating how I feel that it
always happens generally when it gets close that the overrules happen. But the umpires are
really good. They've got some great umpires. 
 
Q. Do you have any explanation why it happens seemingly at the critical point?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't, no. 
 
Q. Did you feel you may get defaulted if you carried on with your protest?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I don't think so really.  
 
Q. What did you sort of say to yourself or what did you do after that incident to get
yourself so focused? More often than most, a couple years ago you might have gone to
pieces after that incident. Today, to your credit, you came back stronger. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I was still enjoying myself. I was having fun out there. I
haven't had too many opportunities myself to play on Centre Court against a great grass
court player like Richard. I mean, I didn't want to, you know, ruin the situation. I
wanted to have fun and enjoy myself and put the best effort that I could in and play as
well as I believe I can.  
 
Q. Do you think the instance sparked you? 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It's possible. But generally, you know, I do get negative effects out
of it. Today I didn't. Maybe it is because of that, yeah.  
 
Q. Did you feel he should have been seeded then, from his low ranking?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Richard is a great player. I mean, he is one of the toughest players on
the tour on grass. But I just feel that maybe he does deserve to get seeded. But then I
guess, you know, Alex deserves to get seeded, too. I don't think it's a match fixing or a
draw fixing at all. I don't say that whatsoever. I just feel bad for Alex because he is a
tough tennis player, and he is hard to beat. He's still not going to be that easy to beat
on the grass. I think it's sad for him because he's had a great year. I mean, it's got to
be a little bit demoralising for him and not get seeded where he feels he deserves it and
I'm sure most people feel he deserves to be seeded. 
 
Q. What would you think of the idea of all the majors, Roland Garros in particular,
seeding according to ability on surface?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't think that's really that fair. I mean, I know I would be really
annoyed if I got to the French Open and I was ranked 10 in the world and I didn't get
seeded. I mean, being seeded is a very big bonus. You don't have to play another seed
until the fourth round. I mean, if you're not seeded, you could play one in the first
round. It makes a big difference. I mean, it does make the draw a lot different. In the
French Open, there are a lot of seeds that lose early. Why can't Wimbledon be the same?
Not all seeds win and like the surfaces that they are, but they are ranked where they are
and they deserve to be there. That's why they're there.  
 
Q. Krajicek said it's a better idea to get 32 players seeded. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That's not a bad idea. They do that at the Ericsson. That seems to work
pretty decently. Then again, you know, they all get a bye, too. I don't know. I mean, it's
hard to say. I'm not going to be the one to say what's right and what's wrong. I have my
opinion on what I think. I just think that if I was in their situation, their position,
I'd be pretty upset not to get seeded.  
 
Q. The situation with Mats in Hamburg, was that just a one off? Are you still in
contact with Mats? 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I still am, yes. I'm going to meet up with him a week here and there in
the summer. 
 
Q. He's not here with you?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. The problem with him is he's more busy than I am. He's got a lot of
tournaments. We'll meet up whenever we can. 
 
Q. What can a great Grand Slam champion like that teach you?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Plenty, plenty. 
 
Q. Like?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: At the French we worked on a lot of aspects of my game, even just the
actual shots. Worked on just tactics. There is a lot. I mean, he has so much to offer. 
 
Q. He has a lot of things going on in his life. Is he sort of pretty committed to a
coaching career or just going to be a now-and-again thing?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Whenever we can. When he has the time in his schedule and I have the
time in mine, we're going to try our best. I think he enjoys it. I enjoy being with him.
We have fun together. I think we can make something positive out of it.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT