US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Wayne, you looked to us as if you played very well indeed. How did you see it? 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I played very, very good throughout the whole match. It was very
important for me, my last matches started off really badly, and it was important for me to
come out much better today. I had a good game plan. It worked really well. I played solid
tennis the whole match. 
 
Q. You played him a couple of times before. What was the sort of main difference today
from the last time you played or was it very similar to Canada?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Very similar to Canada. The other time I played him indoors, started
off really badly, he blew me away. He served really well. I just didn't return very well.
You know, that's why it was important for me today in the first couple of games to make
him play a lot of volleys; make him work hard on his serve. If he worked really hard at
the beginning, then he starts going for a little bit more than usual, starts staying back,
which is what I wanted him to do. 
 
Q. You prefer him at the back of the court to the net?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It's much better. Much better at the back. 
 
Q. Did you see any of his match against Muster?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I didn't watch any, no. 
 
Q. Having beaten him, he was full of confidence coming to play you.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I'm sure he was. To beat Muster, you've got to play decently. I think,
you know, he was playing well. He hasn't had such a good run up to the Open. Then he beat
Muster relatively easy. I thought he would be playing really good tennis. 
 
Q. Were you surprised at his comparatively poor play today?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I wouldn't say he really had much of a chance. I think I played too
solidly for him. I made him play a lot on his serve. I served very well. I mixed it up a
lot, got a lot of first serves. I played solid. I never gave him a chance. It's very
difficult to win a match if you're not getting any chances at all. 
 
Q. That's just what he said.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I just played solidly. I think he had maybe one breakpoint on my serve.
That was it. 
 
Q. Would it be fair to make any comparisons between this time you played him and the
last time, which I believe was in Ostrava, indoors?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Like I said, he blew me away. I served poorly, very poorly. He served
huge. Indoors, it's much faster. I think he had a little bit more confidence back then. He
was playing very well at that stage. Basically, I didn't even stand a chance in that
match. 
 
Q. He didn't serve well today, though, did he?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: He served okay. But when he did get a first serve in, I made him play
it. It's very tough mentally for someone like him who needs to come in a lot to know he
has to hit a good volley all the time. Tried to bring up a couple on his feet, missed
them. I could see straightaway. That's what I wanted to do, make him play. It's awfully
tough. I know what it's like having to come in against somebody you have to come in
against, it's pretty hard. 
 
Q. Were you seeing a lack of confidence at all in him?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't really think he had a lack of confidence after beating Muster
as easy as he did. I didn't watch the match. I don't really know what happened. Anytime
you beat him, you've got to be feeling pretty good. 
 
Q. Wayne, do we have a karmic situation here where you sat through a press conference
about a very good cause for children in your home country, and then go out and have a
great win? Is there any connection here?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, Gary Muller, who did the thing this morning, said maybe he'll
give me a press conference next time I play my next match. Maybe it will help me play as
well as I did today. The press conference this morning is a great cause. It made me feel
good, watching Mandela on TV made me feel really, really good. 
 
Q. Can you explain?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I just think it's a great cause. I think the whole thing is going
to be fantastic. You know, for him to be -- for Mr. Mandela to be involved is great. For
such a variety of tennis players, and the strength of the tennis players to want to be
involved, you can't get anything better. For the cause that it's for, it's just a -- the
whole setup of this exhibition, it's fantastic. I'm really glad that I was asked to be a
part of it. I've wanted to help out in things in South Africa. Unfortunately, I don't
really have the time and really know what's the right thing to do. So when this little
exhibition started boiling and I started thinking bit, I was really excited about it. I've
wanted to be involved right from the beginning. 
 
Q. Do you ever talk to the older South Africans, Drysdale, Hugh let, Moore, whomever,
about what it was like being a touring pro back in the apartheid days?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. I don't really talk to them too much about their tennis careers. 
 
Q. You're still wearing an ankle protector. Are you still experiencing trouble with
that ankle?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I'm still having problems, yeah. I'm taking -- after this I've battled
through the summer. I've had a lot of pain. I still do have a lot. But I wanted to play
here. I was playing well, and I didn't think it would be the right thing to take time off
right now. After the Open, I'm going to take as much time off as necessary to recover from
it. 
 
Q. Which ankle?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It's the right one. 
 
Q. Is it just a matter of resting it or do you need something like an operation?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. I had an MRI done on it. Everything was perfect. It's just rest.
Unfortunately, I haven't given much of it. 
 
Q. Wayne, you have been in the Top 10, you've slipped to the 50s or something now. Is
that a big factor in your thinking now? I mean, are you consciously trying to get back
into that zone?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think at this stage, it's easier for me now. Because I'm 55, not that
many expectations on me. Mentally, it's actually pretty good for me. I've been in the Top
10 for a matter of four or five years. It got sort of monotonous after a while. I needed
something to push me a level higher. Not that I wanted this to happen in any way, but I
think this is the sort of situation that will help me a lot. You know, bad things like
this can inspire me to get over the hurdle that I needed not to be just Top 10, but to
have a go at the really, really top. Obviously I'm disappointed. It's been a disappointing
year. Things are going much better now. I think it's going to help me a lot. 
 
Q. What would you say the general reaction among the players has been to the stadium?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: To this stadium? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, my personal view is I think it's great. I think it's a really,
really nice stadium. I do think they could have made the locker rooms a little bit bigger.
They're a little bit small and cramped inside there. Besides this, I've been on this
Arthur Ashe Stadium, it's a great court, good atmosphere. Unfortunately, I've been on the
old center there, which I've played on before. I'd like to be on this one once. The whole
setup, the lounge upstairs, the food and everything, it's fantastic, it's good. It's
really definitely an improvement from the last couple of years. 
 
Q. It looks now as if your draw looks good, you ought to go a little way further.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Taking one at a time. It's tough. Even though Tim is not there, Thomas
is not there, I play the winner of Gimelstob and Gustafsson. They're both tough. I
struggled against Gustafsson. Gimelstob plays well. From now on, they don't get any
easier, they're still tough. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT