WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2004
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everybody . Wayne Ferreira.  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  How does it feel to achieve such a milestone? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  It's been great.  I mean, I've had a lot of years playing tennis, and it's been fun.  It's coming to an end for me, so it's great for me to be here probably the last time.  I'm playing well.  I've won two matches.  I'm pretty happy with the way things are.  I'm glad that even though it's coming to an end, I'm still playing very good tennis.  
 
Q.  When you say it's "coming to an end," you mean this is your last Wimbledon, last time as a tennis player?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yes.  This is probably going to be my last time here, yeah, as a player.  
 
Q.  Is it the end of tennis for you?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  End of playing, my tennis playing.  I'm not sure if it will be the end of my tennis.  I might stay in tennis and do something within the tennis.  But as far as playing it, it probably will be, yes. 
 
Q.  You saved those three set points at 4-5 in the first set.  How crucial was that?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, it was very big.  I played very well today.  I think the thing that was the key was that I served my way out of trouble and I got through those couple tight games where, you know, he had some breakpoints and some set points.  I served very well in the tough times.  I played a very good match today.  I mean, I was very happy with the outcome.  
 
Q.  Did you feel yourself relaxing, especially after the tiebreak? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  You know, I always felt like I had a lot of chances, and I felt disappointed that I hadn't broken him in the first set 'cause I felt I was hitting the ball well and returning well, and there was going to be a time when I was going to break him.  So even if I had lost the first set, I always felt I was in it.  I had to work very hard on my serve games, but he had to work very hard on his, too.  I just felt I was making him work a little harder on his than mine.  It was just, you know, going to happen sometime or another.  
 
Q.  Obviously, you were coming off an injury when you came here last year.  You also struggled at the end of last year.  Are you as fit as you hoped to be at this stage of the year?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No.  I mean, I'm definitely not in the shape that I'm used to and accustomed to, no.  I'm not training half as much as I used to or playing anywhere near as much as I am,  no.  But I'm playing good,  though.  I'm hitting the ball better than I have in probably the last six or eight months, but probably in the worst shape I've been in my whole career, almost.  
 
Q.  Anything that made the difference as to why you're hitting it so well?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Not really.  I don't know.  Just maybe I know it's coming to an end and there's really not too much pressure on anything.  Just kind of swinging and having fun.  
 
Q.  What would your predominant emotion or emotions be,  do you thing, in leaving the playing side?  Would it be relief, sadness, mixed feelings?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  A little bit of both.  I mean, there's nothing more special than walking into these grounds as a player.  And I'm always going to miss that.  I probably will be back here doing other things and part of the game.  But it's not going to have the same meaning, not being a player, and being here for that reason.  It's going to be very sad.  I think it will probably be disappointing if I came back next year for whatever reason and I walked in here not knowing that I can't walk out there and play.  I think it will be tough.  
 
Q.  Do you safer the matches more knowing the last one could be your last one?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, I've enjoyed this year.  I really haven't done that well and haven't played that much.  I really had a great time in Australia.  I enjoyed my matches there.  Played really well.  I enjoyed my match in Paris, too.  Played well there, too.  Was a little disappointed in my loss, but enjoyed myself.  I've had a great time here.  I think it's been -- it's a good experience for me because I'm really enjoying playing and having fun.  And there's no expectations.  I'm not expecting to win.  Kind of savoring the moments.  Really kind of having a good time.  It's fun.  I just wish tennis had been like this my whole career. 
 
Q.  Did you go into matches a different mentality because this one could be your last or the next one could be your last?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah.  I mean, I do feel that I can win because I'm really hitting the ball well, I'm playing well.  I'm enjoying myself, too.  Through my career, the times I have done my best and played my best is when I've been relaxed.  And I feel that way right now.  I don't really have anything to win or lose, so I'm just having fun.  I feel that I have a great chance, still even possibly win this tournament.  There's no question.  I mean, I have the game for it, I have the ability for it, and I have the belief that I still can.  I'm going to try, for sure.  
 
Q.  One of the serve and volleyers, or one of the few who can play serve and volley?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah.  Today, I didn't as much because of the person I played against.  But I really enjoy -- my first-round match, I tried extra especially hard to come in a lot and play the serve-volley game and at least leave these courts knowing I played the right game of tennis for these courts. 
 
Q.  Do you remember your first Wimbledon in 1990?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I sure do.  I remember my final round in qualifying and I remember my first round on Court 2 against Noah.  So it's been a long time, but it was a special for me.  
 
Q.  Was it something that hit you from day one that you knew that this, you know, going to be that time of place that would have a special place for you?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, it scared me so much after that match that I played horrific tennis the second round, which I've clean forgotten about.  But it did scare me in to believing I could be a good tennis player and compete at a high level and even have chances of winning.  
 
Q.  You're an assistant coach at Cal.  How much time do you spend around there?  Will you do more of it now that you're getting off the tour?  How does that affect your own game?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I think I will start possibly doing more, but in a different capacity.  At the time being, you know, I've been working with them in the afternoons and playing with them and helping them, but it's been about me, too.  Like it's been practice for me.  And I've been trying to train while I'm working with them.  Obviously, if I stop and I'm not doing it for myself, I'll start doing it more of a coaching basis.  But if I do do that, I have to make a commitment to it.  It's not something that I'm going to just do for the fun of it and the hell of it.  It's going to be something that I'm going to put my mind to and try and get some -- achieve something out of.  I'm not sure if I'm really willing or if that's something that I'm really looking to do. 
 
Q.  How did you end up there, you know, a guy from South Africa and world travels coming from there, obviously?  How did you end up in Berkeley?  Is it a good base for you?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, my wife is from Orinda.  We moved back when I had my first son.  We didn't want to live in Orinda because the people all look funny.  But we moved to a place we thought was the best suited for the type of people we are, so we ended up in Berkeley.  It's close to her family yet far enough away.  
 
Q.  The next round.  We were expecting you to play Coria.  He's gone out to this young German, Florian Mayer.  What does that do to your expectations?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I would have been happy to play either, really.   I think I have a better grass court game for them.  I'm happy to play.  You know, looking at the draw, people I could have played, it doesn't look that bad right now.  But obviously, you know, I have to play well and keep playing well.  I did watch a bit of this last set, and Mayer is very, very good.  He's tough.  He's got a great backhand.  Hits good shots.  It's not going to be easy, but it's definitely someone, if I had to look on a draw and say I was playing a third round, I would be happy.  
 
Q.  When you look back on your career, do you think it will surprise you that you did better at the Australian Open than at Wimbledon, given your grass court game?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, you know, I would have done a lot better here at Wimbledon if they'd keep the courts the same like they did in the early '90s.  You know, I did well back then and I had a really good game for it.  When the balls got a little heavier and it became a little harder to serve and volley, I kind of lost that ability to stay back -- I mean, to come in.  I had to stay back a bit more and it was a little harder for me.  But, you know, Australia, the courts are still pretty quick there.  It kind of suits my game.  It's hard to say.  I mean, you know, there's been some Christmastimes that I've not hit a tennis ball in two months, three months.  I went down there, the that year I got to the semifinals two years ago, I didn't hit a ball for three months and  went straight out and got to the semis.  You know, that was -- it was because I had no expectations and I had fun.  And I have a great time down there.  And I have a lot of fun here.  I think the problem that I've had also in the last five years is I've come into Wimbledon being injured.  You know, I did my ankle twice, I tore a stomach muscle once, and I did my groin last year.  So that's possibly why I haven't achieved as much as I could have here.  
 
Q.  Could you just comment about the surfaces.  Do you think, is Rebound Ace quicker than the surface here now?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, it's different.  You know, you can't come in a lot there.  I think the reason why is people don't expect you to come in.  So when you sneak in on them, they're expecting it.  Here they're prepared more for you to come in and they gear their game around it a bit more.  But people return a lot -- stand in a lot and return a lot better, get more out of the returns.  You know, on a hard court they don't feel they have to.  It's a little bit of just a game plan, just a different type of tennis.  
 
Q.  When you finally hang up your sneakers, favorite single memory if you had to choose just one?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I think probably McEnroe quarterfinals Australian Open. 
 
Q.  Tell me about it. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, it's just special.  The guy for me, you know, I watched him so many years.  He's such a character.  Just to say that I actually played on the same court with him is a great memory.  But to beat him about as badly as I could have, it was a great experience.  
 
Q.  How do you think McEnroe would do at the Orinda Country Club?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I don't know.  I wouldn't even go to Orinda country club.  
 
Q.  Can I just ask about Tim's chances in view of the fact that this surface is slower?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, he still has a perfect grass court game.  I mean, he has the best volleys of anybody around now, and he has the best game.  I mean, it just depends on how well he serves.  He has improved his serve.  He's not kicking it as much.  He's going for a little more.  He's more aggressive.  So I feel his chances are better now than they were in the last couple of years.  
 
Q.  I saw some of your game, I couldn't see all of it.  I overheard you at the end saying, "It did bother me for a while.  I was lucky I won my service game."  Can you remember what that was referring to?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah.  It was just something with the umpire.  Just a private little thing.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT