PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 15, 1996
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Wayne, with Mark Philippoussis, guys getting pushed around, Alex O'Brien in the
quarterfinals, you're taking care of business?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Pretty good day for me. I played exceptionally well. Andrei, a tough
guy to play, if you don't play the right way. I played perfect. I tried to come in on all
the second serves and tried to make him go for too much, a couple doubles. Be good on my
serve, serve and volley, be aggressive. I played really solid tennis.

Q. Wayne, can you just contrast today's match with yesterday's? You were in sort of a
struggle, at least more difficult than today. Things going to go a lot easier?

WAYNE FERREIRA: A lot easier. I think I lifted ball off the ground a lot better today.
Obviously it was a little bit more different. Michael hit the ball a lot harder and lot
flatter, much harder to do something off. I played a lot better off of my ground strokes.
And serve I think was about the same, still good, volleys were good. I think the whole
difference was the player I was playing against and the ground strokes.

Q. You play Vacek twice this year already and beat him both times. What worked against
him? 

WAYNE FERREIRA: He's a difficult player. He's got a very, very big serve. The thing
that's good in my game is that I return well. Against him it's very important to serve and
be positive on your serves and try and win them because he serves so well, you only get
very -- you know, one or two chances in the match to break him. If you lose your serve,
you know, you're in trouble. It's important to really concentrate on my serve and then
hope or just wait for that one or two chance that I can get and then use it.

Q. Going up against a big server like that a big help as you look toward the Open in
two weeks?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Good for me. Now I played two ground strokers, now I'm playing a big
serve and volleyer. If I can get through that, probably another serve and volleyer. It's
good for my preparation to get to play every type of tennis game that there is. It
definitely will be an advantage.

Q. Can you talk about some of the things you've done well against him in the past?
Career wise I think you're 6-Love.

WAYNE FERREIRA: I think I return a little bit too well for him. He's got a good serve,
but if you do make him play a lot of volleys, he doesn't volley as well behind his serve,
you know, if you make him play a lot. I think it's something that I've always done well
against him, break him once or twice, then play well enough on my serves just to hold out
through the match. I actually played him last week and it was a very, very close match. I
won in three sets. It was very difficult.

Q. Is there anything that you've done in New Haven during the time here that you've
kind of grown to like?

WAYNE FERREIRA: It's been pretty difficult really. I only arrived here on Sunday. I
only had really one day off, then the other day it rained. I did go to the mall, but
besides that I've been busy every day training, been putting in a lot of time, practicing
and playing matches. Obviously it's sad because you like to go and do things, but then
again you're trying to prepare for the Open so I'm trying to put the time and effort on
that side. I have to miss out on the good stuff, I guess.

Q. Anything in particular you're going to do to prepare for the Open?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Trying to work on little aspects on the game. A bit of physical running
around, trying to get in the best shape I can be because the Open is always difficult in
that respect. Practicing side, you know, not really doing too much, just trying to work on
little aspects and trying to improve, trying to work on making myself an all-around
player. You know, nothing really special.

Q. Why is the Open tough physically?

WAYNE FERREIRA: All the Grand Slams are tough. I always try and prepare myself the best
possible way I can for the Grand Slams. I do the same for the Australian and the French
and the US is no exception. It's hot like the Australian and you have to be in good shape.

Q. Any particular reason the Americans seem to have dominated the Open in the last few
years?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Good question. I don't know. (Inaudible).

Q. How so?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, they haven't really been dominating this year at all. No one's
really been dominating anything. Maybe the Open will be the same. For the rest of the
tournaments this year, Sampras and Agassi haven't really been any better than anybody
else.

Q. You think that's good for the game?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, I think it's great.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT