PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 14, 1996
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Wayne, you came up with some big serves.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: If I didn't hit the serves as well as I did, I probably would have
lost. Probably the only thing that saved me. Couple of games I was down a couple
breakpoints, I got a lot of aces in. I think I definitely would have lost if I didn't
serve so well. 
 
Q. Other parts of the game you weren't too happy with?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Pretty bad day. Besides the serve, it was a pretty ordinary came of
tennis. 
 
Q. What have you been doing so well the last couple of tournaments (inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I've been pretty consistent. I played a lot of good matches. I've been
competing very well and made a lot of good ones. I've been doing everything well, putting
my game together. Kind of everything's coming together in the way that I'd like to. Just
when I'm playing certain people, when they're playing certain ways, I'm trying to do
different things, they all seem to be doing pretty well. Today is an exception. I guess
everyone's allowed bad days. 
 
Q. What things in particular have you been doing?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I've been trying to work on my serve percentage, something I've been
working on a lot. When I do get my serve in, it's a big factor. It's a weapon for me if it
goes in. I've been missing a lot. After that, I try to be more aggressive, trying to come
in a couple second serves, also trying to serve a lot more on my first serve, serve and
volley, just being more aggressive. I hit the ball well from the baseline, but sometimes I
don't do the right thing after I get in a position to attack, and I'll stay back. I'm
trying to just change it up and be more aggressive and do the right thing. 
 
Q. Change anything to help you for the Open?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Just be, I think, mentally it's a tough tournament to play, a lot of
matches, hot. Very different venue. It's a tough one. You know, you have been very
mentally tough in all your matches. I think the important thing is the first couple of
matches to concentrate really hard on getting them over with really quickly and not spend
too much time out on the court because, you know, Grand Slams in five sets, the fitness
becomes a big factor when you get to the second week. If you can have easy matches, it
makes it a lot easier. 
 
Q. A different type of venue. How so?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It's an interesting place. It's different because it takes a long time,
long drives to get to tennis every day. For me it's just a different -- I don't know. It's
hard to explain really. I have different feelings. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It is the toughest, yeah. It's a tough one. 
 
Q. New York fans going crazy (inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It's that, but also it's a bit tough mentally because by now we're
starting to get towards the end of the year, last Grand Slam, sort of getting physically
tired more and mentally tired from playing a lot of matches. The summer is very long. It's
very hard because it's very hot and a lot of long matches. Takes it out of you. By the
time you get to the Open, at that stage a lot of people are looking to have a break
already. Mentally it's tough to get yourself up to fight hard and to play after the long
summer that you've had up till then. 
 
Q. So what do you do between the weeks (inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Unfortunately with the Olympics this year, it ruined my schedule a lot.
With the designations that the players have to make, unfortunately seven weeks in a row
leading up to the Open. I have no break up to that, so it's going to be very difficult for
me this year. 
 
Q. Trying to get that changed in the system, you ended up with too much on your plate?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Sometimes the designations can be difficult to do. They are tough. You
know, the Olympics only comes around once every four years. That's really the only thing
that really ruined it for me. The Toronto week, which is coming up next week, is normally
during the Olympics. Normally I play that and take the week off before the Open. This year
I have to play it, so I have no choice. A little difficult. 
 
Q. Don't know much about your coaches (inaudible). Sounds like you're trying to mix
your game up, trying to be the player you can be. Who is instrumental in that and what
kind of role, if any, has he played in your development?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I never really had any association with him at all except for one
Davis Cup tie that we had. Didn't really help me there. Actually I got a new coach, Don,
used to be the No. 1 doubles player in the world a couple years back. Started working with
me from the claycourt season. Since then the way we've been working on things and trying
to do it differently, it seems -- just his ideas are much better, helping me a lot. Also
because he's a very good friend of mine and has been for years. His input that he gives
me, I think I respect him a lot. Whatever he says I tend to believe more and do more. He's
helped me a lot in the last month and a half especially through the grass court season. We
worked on a lot. I didn't do as well as I would have liked to. We worked on a lot of
things. It all seems to be coming and paying off now, which is important. Hopefully by the
Open it will be coming along good. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)? New input?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yes. He played singles and was a good single's player. He was a pure
serve and volleyer. So he's trying to work that into my game because that's a part of my
game that I don't have which I'd like to have more. He's working a lot on that and trying
to improve that. I've always felt and he's always felt that that's the only part of my
game that needs to be worked on to make me the best player I can be. It seems to be going
along pretty well. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: His golf game is about as bad as mine right now. 
 
Q. This year we haven't seen a lot of the big-name players winning the Grand Slams. Is
that kind of situation good for the game of tennis? 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think it's pretty good. Made the run -- tournaments leading up to the
Master's pretty interesting, or even the No. 1 rankings pretty interesting, because anyone
can win and be No. 1. I think it makes tennis exciting. It's always boring to have the
same people winning all the time and the same people are in the finals. It's nice for the
spectators to see new faces, brings more excitement, different kind of excitement. For me
and I think for most of the players, we all -- obviously, the Sampras and Agassis, they
don't like it so much because they're not dominating, but for the rest of us, we all think
it's a pretty good thing. 
 
Q. You see people by Krajicek, Kafelnikov, breaking through and winning, do you think
it's not a stronghold, same three guys aren't winning all the time, I can win the Open?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I definitely believe that now, yeah. This year has been like that. I've
always had a problem mentally on going to tournaments knowing that I always wanted to do
well and win matches. Lately, the last year, I feel every time I play a match, I feel I
can win the match and every time I play a tournament, I feel I can win the tournament.
That's what makes you a good player, having the belief that you know you can win. A lot of
people don't have that and that's why they're not as good as they can be. Like Kafelnikov,
that's part of his game that makes him so good. Very confident, knows he can beat anybody.
He beats people when he probably shouldn't only because he has the belief he can do it.
It's an important thing to have. I've tried to worked on that over the years. It's
difficult. Once you start beating players on a regular basis, you get to feel much better
in yourself and your game. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT