GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1996
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. First two set tiebreakers and then a delay and all of a sudden you close it out in
the third. Did you motivate your game that much?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think I played pretty well in the last set. I came out; I tried to be
more aggressive on the groundstrokes and hit them harder and flatter and Jim missed a lot.
I don't think he played as well, but I definitely played a lot better. First two points
were -- could have -- he was up 15-40 on my serve in the first game and 1-Love in the
third and if he had broken me, it might have been different, but besides those two points,
I think I had played very well. 
 
Q. So I mean, that could have happened in a match like that (Inaudible.)
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I just think I came out a little bit more aggressive and -- I mean, at
15-40 he tried to be aggressive on those two points and did the right thing, but missed
them and then from then onwards, I think he struggled a lot. I mean, I wouldn't say he --
he tried to do the right thing. It just didn't pay-off. Then after that, I just got really
aggressive; played well; served well, but also made every return and he struggled. 
 
Q. Is this the same that is going on in your head-to-head; he beat you for a while; now
you seemed to turn that around?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think I am playing a lot better. Those times when I played him he was
at his best and he was playing very well and he was dominating a lot. Now, he is not
really doing that as much, but I think I am a lot better tennis player now than I was back
then. And I don't -- I have -- mentally, I feel a lot better against guys like him and the
top guys, and I know I can beat them. I mean, that is a step that is important to get over
and which helps me a lot now when I play. 
 
Q. What did you do during the break?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I actually slept, actually fell asleep, to be honest. 
 
Q. What did you do after the match?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I have just come back from a run. I went running. 
 
Q. How far did you run?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Just for 20 minutes. 
 
Q. Do you know what the distance is?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: 20 minute jog, put it that way. I don't know how far it is. 
 
Q. Anybody recognize you?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, there is no one out where we are running. It is pretty quiet out
there. 
 
Q. When you see someone struggling like Jim was, is your goal just to wait for him to
make a mistake; you don't try to make any shots --
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I think I was pretty aggressive. I tried to go for it a lot. I hit
the ball really -- a little bit flatter and a lot harder and deeper. And it is not really
like he didn't play that well. I think the way that I was hitting it-- the difference in
the first two sets to the third set made it a lot harder for him because I was hitting it
a lot differently. It is much harder to do something when the ball is coming flatter and
harder and deeper, so I think the way that -- the better that I played made it more
difficult for him to play well. 
 
Q. You play Muster next?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah. 
 
Q. What is it like playing against a guy who played more than an hour yesterday?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't think it makes a difference. If he is going to win he is going
to play, believe you me, a lot longer than an hour. He is a tough, tough guy to play.
Doesn't matter whenever you play him, whatever time, whatever surface, he is always going
to be difficult. 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It is about time, isn't it? 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT