XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 25, 1996
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you rate your chances after today, seeing the next round?

WAYNE FERREIRA:   Well, I think I am starting to get a little tougher matches.  They are going to get difficult.  I played pretty well today.  Pretty tough section.  But if I do carry on playing the way I am playing, I think I definitely have a very good chance of getting a medal, yeah.


Q. Does the heat have any influence on your game?

WAYNE FERREIRA:   Today it didn't really play much of a factor at all.  The days have been hot; not a factor.  I am in really good shape.  For me, it is actually a bonus.


Q. What has been your involvement as far as seeing other things here, are you staying in the Village or are you staying separately?

WAYNE FERREIRA:   No, I am staying in the Village.


Q. Have you been able to mix with a lot of athletes and have you had experience out of that?

WAYNE FERREIRA:   I have been getting to know some of the South African athletes.  Little difficult because we are always spending a lot of time here and they are in their sports  and I try and get out.  The only thing I have seen is women's gymnastics and a water polo match.  So it is not that much I'd like to see more as the weeks go by.  It is just a little difficult right now because I am having to prepare to play a lot of matches.


Q. What is your favorite event to see aside from tennis? What would you like to see most?

WAYNE FERREIRA:   I think the gymnastics is pretty impressive.  It is always something that I always try to get to see.  I really enjoy watching that.


Q. Did you have any chat with Penny Heyns, perhaps, after the gold medals?

WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, not really, haven't really seen her around that much.


Q. Does that inspire you at all or not?

WAYNE FERREIRA:   Well, it makes me feel good that we have some medals.  I mean, I don't think it can inspire me anymore than I already was inspired before I came here.


Q. In Barcelona you were one of the only three athletes at the Olympics winning medals for South Africa.  How do you see this games for you specifically and your medal possibilities?

WAYNE FERREIRA:   Well, my possibilities are good.  I would very much like to win another one.  I think it would be - I think it is a very good effort if somebody can win a medal in  two Olympics in a row.  I think it is very difficult and, for me, it would be the highlight of my career, so that is why I am here and I am trying my best to do that.  I think it is important for me and for my country to do the best I can; hopefully bring back as many medals as I can and my country can.


Q. Wayne, you were playing in Washington when the opening ceremony was on getting to the final over there.  Did you feel that you missed out on something by not being in that opening ceremony that you'd obviously liked to have been?

WAYNE FERREIRA:   Well, you know, that is the chance I took.  I played Washington for the matches in preparation; if I did well, I said I would have to miss the ceremony.  If I didn't do well, I could come.  Unfortunately, I didn't make it, but fortunately, I did well there.  I was in the ceremony in Barcelona, and it was very long and very hot and very boring, so in a way, I wasn't that unhappy from that experience that I missed it.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT