NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 14, 1996
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOE LYNCH:  Wayne has entered the quarterfinals now and was actually
down 6-0 in the career head-to-head with Courier; turned that
one around today and has always played well here reaching the
final in '93.  First question.

 Q.  Wayne, did you happen to know what time it was you got
off the court last night?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I'd say maybe 9:30, quarter to 10:00.  Somewhere
around there.

 Q.  What time was it today that you got back on the court?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I played third.  I would say about 1:00, quarter
past 1:00.

 Q.  That is not a great deal of an interval; is it?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Not really.  I didn't really have much choice,
really.  Believe me, I'd rather have finished that match last
night than rather finish it today, so that was one good thing.


 Q.  This was your easiest match?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, so far.  It wasn't supposed to be.  Put
it this way, it was the shortest.  I don't know about  the easiest.


 Q.  According to my figures you played  91 games in this tournament;
Sampras has played 19; yet he is in the same round as you are.
 Does that seem quite fair to you?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I guess it is fair in a way that he got
a "bye" in the first round.  They get "byes"
for the top 8; unfortunately, I was 9th so I missed out on that
one.  He got lucky.  He got a walkover, it happens line that.
That is just the way it goes.  Hopefully somewhere down the line
it will be the other way around.  But in a way, I am glad that
I have played these matches because I have been -- last week I
had a great week, but I still feel like I need to play a lot of
matches and I have played good guys.  I have had tough ones and
I will probably be in better shape going into the quarterfinals
than, I guess, Pete would.

 Q.  How good is Hernan Gumy?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I struggled really badly in that match.  I found
it difficult.  The wind was tough.  Didn't play as well as I'd
like to, but I do think he is a very good player.  I think he
will be a lot tougher and a lot more difficult to beat on the
clay courts.  But out of all the Spanish and South American guys,
you know, out of all the clay courters like he is, I think he
is the most aggressive out of all of them.

 Q.  Are you exhausted? 

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I am actually feeling pretty good.  Unfortunately,
I have to play doubles which may tire me out and I am a little
bit behind in that.  I have to catch up two matches somewhere
along the line.  I actually feel pretty good.  I am pretty pumped
up on the way that I have been playing and the results and I think
that is going to help me through a lot.  But I am in good shape,
so I don't think I have a problem with the amount of matches I
have to play.

 Q.  What was the difference against Courier this time than
previous times?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I served extremely well today.  He didn't really
have any chances.  I know one game he had breakpoint, two breakpoints;
besides that, he didn't have any, you know, so if I was going
my serve games so easily, I was able to get a little bit more
concentration; little bit more effort on his serve and I was a
little bit more aggressive and I tried to do more different things;
tried to work the forehand a little, and then get a chance to
come in on the backhand which I did quite well.  My volleys were
good.  So I just, overall, I'd say aggressiveness helped me a
lot.

 Q.  After you won that tournament in Scottsdale, when did
you get here?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I actually flew that evening and arrived here
Sunday evening.

 Q.  What did you think about the speed of the court? 

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I like the speed of court here.  I think it
is good.  These days, they are changing the balls; making them
heavier, which is a little difficult, but I like these courts.
 I especially like the clubhouse.  I don't think I have lost a
match out there. It is a good court for me.

 Q.  The balls seemed to be bouncing pretty high?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, they do.  I quite like it.  It is pretty
good for my game.

 Q.  What do you likes about the clubhouse?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I think the atmosphere there is great.  The
stadium is obviously nice, but it is more -- you seem to be in
such a big arena and people are quite -- there is such a large
space between the court and the backboards and people are spread
out all over the place.  The clubhouse, when you play out here,
you got someone sitting right behind you.  Everyone is involved
in it.  It is just the atmosphere is much nicer.

 Q.  How do the courts compare to Scottsdale?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I think they are exactly the same except there
is that slight bit of altitude which I felt the ball came through
the air a little bit slower, but as for the bounce of the court,
and the speed of the court, I think they are pretty much identical.


 End of FastScripts.....   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT