IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1995
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I guess you are happy you cut your vacation short, I guess.

WAYNE FERREIRA: At this stage, yeah, I can't complain now. I am just satisfied even if
-- I think Boris still has a chance to get in and if I don't, I can still be pleased with
the week. I have played exceptionally well. Up until now, I have had 2 great wins the last
two days no matter what happens. Today, especially, it will mean a lot to me for a while,
one to remember.

Q. Have you ever been much looser than you ever been in another tournament; just
because of conditions of you coming here?

WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I think I have been playing about this level the last three
tournaments that I have played, so, it has been about the same.

Q. You just said this match is one to remember for a long time. Why, because you beat
Sampras or because you played so well? 

WAYNE FERREIRA: I think a little bit of both. I beat Pete in Lyon which was special too
and I thought maybe it would have just been one of those things that I wouldn't beat him
again. When I came out today, I thought I would give it another go and I beat him twice in
a row now. So, this is, for me, confidence-wise, it makes me feel really, really good that
I can do well against him and against everybody else every time I go out and play now.

Q. Why do you think your game matches up well with him at this particular time?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I think today -- I mean, today, it was very difficult for him to
break my serve because I served exceptionally well. I didn't really give him much chance
at all to break my serve and, you know, it is the kind of game that he has -- he is
normally like that. His serves are really difficult to break and he is always getting a
lot of aces. I think I gave him -- served today like he normally serves. I think that put
him under a lot of pressure; then there were a couple of games-- well, the game that I
broke him in the think set, he didn't serve that well. Maybe a little bit of pressure
because I was returning well too, so, you -- it was good for me to keep serving well the
whole match and keep him under pressure instead of, you know, letting him blast me away
with his serve.

Q. Which advice could you give Kafelnikov in order to win a set against Becker?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Advice can I give him? I don't know, I might have to talk very, very
nicely to him tomorrow. I am actually warming him up tomorrow morning, so might have to do
something special in the warmup.

Q. Are you really?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah. I might give him a few tips or something.

Q. Were you aware that if you won in straight sets today that you were on your way, did
you know that?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, more or less. I didn't really know 100% what the whole procedure
was, whatever. But, you know...

Q. That was the case, if you had won in straight sets you were automatically in?

WAYNE FERREIRA: I was aware of it. But I mean, there are so many different ways that it
can go. I really didn't look at it. I just wanted to win the match. I wasn't really
worrying about too much about what is going to happy with Becker and Kafelnikov; that is
their match. I just want to play mine. I just wanted to win; even if I don't make it, just
wanted to win this match.

Q. It was kind of funny they were cheering for you like crazy first two sets; yet if
you had won in straight sets, the guy they cheer for even more wouldn't be playing
tomorrow?

WAYNE FERREIRA: I heard a couple of times to Pete "help out Boris, help out
Boris," well, he helped him out a little. Still giving him a little bit of a hope
there, so maybe he can try and do something about it.

Q. Will you come here to see the match here or will you watch it on TV,
Boris/Kafelnikov?

WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't know. I am not quite sure what I am going to do yet.

Q. What do you think of this format, the whole deal? It so different than anything
else, this idea of having --

WAYNE FERREIRA: It is very interesting. I have never played anything like this. I mean,
after I lost against Boris, I almost thought that I didn't really have much of a chance at
all. And now I am actually in a good situation right now. It is just weird that you can
lose your first match and still be in contention. I guess, maybe I don't know, how if --
it could have worked -- somebody said to me, even if I had lost in three sets today and
Boris lost in straight sets, I still had a chance to get it. So ...

Q. That is right.

WAYNE FERREIRA: The whole thing is really weird. It is interesting. It is not something
that -- we do only one time a year. It is good to do something different now and again.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT