IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1995
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Boy, that was an entertaining match.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, it was pretty tiring. I think it was a great match. I tried the
best I could do and tried to play as well as I could and I started getting better when I
started not thinking about it too much and I played great tennis. I mean, I am totally
happy with the whole match. It is always a match like this that you remember and down the
line can help you in future matches. 
 
Q. He really had you on the ropes there. Just from watching it, it looked like you were
on the ropes, but did you think that?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, definitely. I mean, I definitely was behind and he was looking a
lot better. Then at 5-4, I thought, well, I got one more game; I will keep the ball going
and let him win the point. He didn't get one first serve in and he missed a couple of
balls from the baseline and I broke pretty easily in that game. I think after that, he
lost a lot of energy and a lot of mental energy and I was able to get a little bit better
and he got a little bit worse. 
 
Q. Entertain any hopes of qualifying at the Round Robin?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I guess if I win tomorrow I have a chance, sure. 
 
Q. Did it enter your mind when you started out?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, at 5-4, I was thinking to myself, I wasn't supposed to be here in
the first place and, you know, I got one more chance at breaking him. I might as well give
it the best shot that I have because if I do win this match, I do stand a chance, so I
just thought I will just play it and see what happens. I always want to give the best that
I could, here especially, and winning something like this probably will help me for
tomorrow, hopefully. 
 
Q. Yesterday you didn't have an answer. Today it is official. You are going to play the
Davis Cup Tie versus Austria.....
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, it has been. Officially we are playing on grass now. 
 
Q. That was your intentions, right?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, it was. Well, it was what we hoped for. The players -- we think
that is the best surface. That is what we are trying to do.  
 
Q. How do you see your chances like the Austrians, Thomas Muster, on grass?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That is why we are playing on grass. I think it's the best chance we
have got. It is going to be more difficult for them than it is for us. I think it gives us
the edge above them. Against somebody like Thomas, you could never count him out. Anyway,
we have the best surface; we still have to beat them. 
 
Q. Do you know Alex Antonish?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah. 
 
Q. Do you think -- because he kind of retired from his single career and --
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Will have to come back? 
 
Q. Yeah, he needs to because he is the only grass court player we have.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Maybe. Maybe. I am not sure what he is going to do. 
 
Q. Can you tell us where it is located, the grass court?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't know. In a cricket beach somewhere. We will build one
somewhere. 
 
Q. It is a long way to Davis Cup?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think we will probably play it on one of the cricket fields at
Wandress (phonetic) Country Club. We actually played, I remember a couple years ago, we
played a challenger there on the cricket field; made some courts there; actually came out
pretty good. So I think they will probably do the same thing again. 
 
Q. I have never been in a cricket field. How is the grass compared to a real lawn
tennis court?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think it is the same. I think all they have to do -- only thing you
have to be careful about, you have to get it where it is flat. I think this cricket pitch
is in really good condition. It is pretty flat. All they have to do is just cut the grass
really thin and I think that will be it; paint some lines; that will be it. That is an
easy court today build, I think. 
 
Q. Wayne, Kafelnikov was moaning left and right out there.. Does that affect you or did
you just play your game?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I mean, it is always, you know, if you see him doing something like
that, it kind of -- it is a good feeling for myself, because I feel like I am getting on
top of him. And when you can get that kind of a feeling, it always inspires you to do a
little bit more. 
 
Q. And the crowd seemed to get down on him and in favor of you; especially for your
hustle. And did you respond to that?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't know if they were on my side or if they wanted me to play three
sets so they can watch it. But I think towards the end of the third set just because -- I
guess because of the points we were playing, and I played some great points; a lot of
people got behind me. And that helped a lot. You hear it a lot and kind of inspires you to
play well as well. 
 
Q. Was it a typical crowd; above average for you, I mean, it was ---
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It is a lot different from yesterday, I tell you that. But I had more
people on my side and I think at the beginning it was pretty even. They were just watching
the game and enjoying it and then I think when I won the second set, they kind of switched
to my side which was always nice. 
 
Q. The fact is you are still in this tournament obviously and you could still win it.
Sampras is looming -- I am asking every player this, it seems like. When Sampras is in a
tournament, does it change the whole complexion of it, do you think, oh, boy, my chances
are almost nil, or are you still super confident? 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, you always have a chance. I mean, a lot of times when he has
played like he did today and yesterday, you always look at it and be like, wow, you are
going to maybe break his leg or something to beat him. He has played exceptionally well
the last couple of days. I just hope he doesn't do that tomorrow, but if he does, I don't
know, I have to try and do something, something extraordinary. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT