IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1995
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Wayne, do you think in the end it came down to the fact that you were running out of
a little bit of energy after that incredible match or was it more than that?

WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I had enough energy. I was feeling fine. I just didn't serve well
enough at the end.

Q. Wayne, were you actually on a safari last week or did you have to cancel it?

WAYNE FERREIRA: I was in Tansania, I don't know if you consider that a safari. I was
visiting friends down there. I didn't actually go on a safari. I guess all of Tansania is
a safari.

Q. Did you have to cut that short to come back here?

WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I was going back to South Africa on -- arrive back on Friday night,
so it was my original plan.

Q. The first set you played, you hit many, many incredible returns starting with the
very first one of the match. How do you feel you were playing then and what do you think
took things away from it slightly? Was Boris getting better or was it, as you said
earlier,that your serve.....

WAYNE FERREIRA: It is tough to beat Boris on second serve. I didn't -- there were a
couple of games that I served well, but on the whole, I didn't serve well enough at all.
And it is tough to win every single game against him. And then I think he served as well.
Got a lot of aces; got a lot of first serves in. Whenever he was down, I mean, I remember
one game I think I was 40-Love and he served three aces in a row. That is the kind of
thing that makes him win the match. That is what I didn't do.

Q. The more matchpoints you managed to save there, did you think that perhaps with the
law of average, you were going to get one yourself eventually?

WAYNE FERREIRA: I was hoping. I definitely did. But I was a little bit too far down in
the breaker. I lost too many points at the beginning and at that stage, it is tough to
scramble back. I almost got back, but I was a little bit too far, I think.

Q. Where in town did you actually get the message that you were to play in Frankfurt? 

WAYNE FERREIRA: My manager found me. He did a very, very good job finding me, but he
did. Actually, I got the message that I was going to play on Friday evening. I did have an
idea sometime during the week, but Friday was the first time that I knew.

Q. How do you think your chance is to reach the semifinal now?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Obviously, it's a lot more difficult now. There are two more matches to
go. I played well today. If I can improve my serve, I think I still have a chance of
getting there. They are going to be tough matches. But, you know, you never know. If I can
win those two, depending on what happens with the rest of the guys in the group, there is
always a possibility. I am definitely going to try. There is no question about that.

Q. Wayne, how is the pressure here different from other tournaments?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Not much pressure, I don't think. I think playing Boris in Germany is
also a problem. It doesn't matter where in Germany, it is always the same. It is
difficult. I don't think there is pressure as such being a different tournament. I think
it is just a whole different atmosphere playing Boris here. The crowd is obviously for
him, so it makes it much tougher, but it is always fun. It would have been nice to have
won, but that is the way it goes.

Q. It is a prestige thing with other guys on the Tour, when you talk with them that you
are coming here?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Oh, yeah, I am sure it is. It is only "The Elite 8," they
call it. To be part of that is obviously something that is above the rest of everybody
else, so I mean, everybody tries at the beginning of January to end up being here; fight
hard throughout the whole year to be here, but only eight people can make it. I was nine,
but one didn't make it, so I am here, but I am here and I am going to give it my best. I
did today and I almost won and I got a couple of more to go, but we will see.

Q. Is it far away from now, but do you know yet on which surface you are going to play
the Davis Cup Tie and in which town?

WAYNE FERREIRA: I ain't going to tell you.

Q. Do you know it yet?

WAYNE FERREIRA: I might. I might. We have an idea, but I can't say yet because I don't
want to say something and let it change, so we will wait until our Federation makes the
final decision.

Q. Is the decision going to be made by you players or....

WAYNE FERREIRA: I think it will be mixed. I think we will all decide together and see
what the best possibilities are where we can play it, and, you know, we -- just a lot of
different things to think about before we decide.

Q. Which surface would you prefer?

WAYNE FERREIRA: That, I am not going to tell you either. I think, I mean, obviously
looking at their side, we have to play on something fast, more -- if we can get a grass
court, it would be great. If not, indoors. One or the other, I think, would be the best
two choices for us.

Q. How is the financial situation by now at your Federation?

WAYNE FERREIRA: I am not quite up to that. I don't really know the ins and outs of
exactly moneywise and exactly what is happening. It is difficult for me to say.

Q. Is there kind of an insecurity by the players or doesn't it influence you in any
way?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, obviously it does. I think the thing that bothers us the most is
we want the Federation to obviously have some funds to fund the juniors. For me, I mean,
it is not a problem. I can do that by myself, and -- but for the kids coming up, I think
that is where the important thing is. So we obviously, the players are are very, you know,
disappointed, and we try and encourage them to do the right thing to help out our juniors.

Q. How important is Davis Cup for your personal career? In Austria, it is very big, the
Davis Cup. Is it as well for South Africa?

WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, we have only been in the World Group the second year now last
year. Tennis died a little bit because we didn't have any form of tennis for the people to
watch. Then when Davis Cup came back and we played against Australia, enthusiasm got back
and a lot more people got involved in the tennis. I think to play against Austria and to
have someone like Thomas come and play in front of our home crowd is probably going to
inspire people to get more involved in it. That is what we are going to try and do, to get
the people behind us and enjoy it more and then hopefully some kids will play and that
will change the whole game in South Africa.

Q. Who is actually running the Federation now? Is it the same people before and you
different name or what? 

WAYNE FERREIRA: I am not quite -- I mean, there has been a couple of changes and
whatever, but I am definitely not the person to talk to about that one.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT