IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 1995
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I was actually here in '92 as an alternate, so I've been here
before. I've seen how it works. I didn't expect to be here. I was supposed to be the
alternate again. So, I am happy I got the chance to play. Obviously, I play first match
against Boris which is going to be pretty difficult, but every single match that I'm going
to play this week is all going to be difficult anyway. So, it doesn't make a difference. 
 
Q. How happy are you to be here?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I had no idea that I would be playing, so I mean, this is, you
know, obviously every player in the world wants to play here and I have the chance to
play. So, obviously, I'm thrilled to be here. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I've been training a lot; better than I had in the last week. I didn't
play last week because I wanted to rest a little bit and also I didn't think that I had a
chance to make No. 8 so I thought I would just take the week off and try and recover and I
feel a lot better, so, I'm feeling good. 
 
Q. What was the problem? 
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I had a problem with my stomach. 
 
Q. So what is the plan?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, I'm just going to have a lot of fun and try and play as well as I
can. I'm not expected to win. I'm not expected to do that well. So, I'm just going to try
and have as much fun as I can and just enjoy the week here. I mean, it's a great week to
be involved in, so I'm just going to have fun playing in it. 
 
Q. You said it's unexpected that you are here?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yes. I actually arrived in South Africa on Saturday to go on holiday
with my wife and her family, so unfortnately, they came and I had to leave and left my
wife there, so I was going to spend time back home with my family and her family and I was
going to rest. This is a little bit unexpected. I mean, I can go back next week and have a
holiday, that's fine. 
 
Q. Is your country watching you now?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think they are. I heard they have T.V. coverage which is going to be
great. There hasn't been that much tennis coverage through the the years, so I think
probably a lot of people are going to watch it and support me.  
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, it's been pretty difficult, you know, with all the chances and I
had lot of problems with the Federation. Our Federation went bankrupt a couple of months
ago so there's been no funds for any of the juniors. None of them have -- are traveling,
no prospects have come up with yet because they don't have any money to spend. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think it's good in a way because they have new people that take over
and they seem to know a lot and they have good ideas and they definitely would make it a
lot better than it is. 
 
Q. Why did they go bankrupt; do you know? Was it sponsership?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, just nobody knows why. Nobody knows where the money went. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I think with the new people in there, it's going to take off pretty
quickly. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Two weeks ago I would say five maybe. I am not quite sure. About four
or five. 
 
Q. You are expected not to do so well, does it bother you in any way?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. Everybody here are tough guys to play against. They are all going
to be hard. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, but I bet anybody in my group would be a favorite start although
the guys in there are tough. None are better than or worse. They are all just as hard as
the other. 
 
Q. My questions is, the crowds would not be hearing boos?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I played Becker twice in the Grand Slam Cup and I've got used to
playing against him in German grounds. It's difficult, but that can inspire you to play
well. You know, you try and like beat him in front of his crowd and it makes for a little
bit of enthusiasm as well. 
 
Q. So are you planning to stay until Saturday?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: At this stage, yeah. Sunday. 
 
Q. (INAUDIBLE) this time last week you came in No. 9 and now you're in. How does that
feel?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It feels good. I mean, I had no idea I was going to play and to come
here and not sit on the sideline makes a big difference. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Exactly. Play and have fun and enjoy. 
 
Q. Out of all the guys you can be playing the best tennis (INAUDIBLE)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: In the last two months, I'm playing well. I have a good chance to do
well. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think I played well against him the other time. I would like to see
if I can do the same. 
 
Q. How do you feel about your draw?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I feel it is tough. Everybody in the section is tough. Everyone here is
the best in the world, so it's not going to be tough. 
 
Q. That's right, you're here among the elites?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That's for sure. 
 
Q. How important is it for you to be on the tour with your family and some people you
have close relationship to?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I mean, it helps to have people around you. Unfortunately, my
wife is not with me this week. My dad is coming to give me support this week which is nice
because I hadn't had him around for a long time. It's nice to have my family and friends.
It's nice to have some support on the side. 
 
Q. So you can say you feel more comfortable?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Obviously, I feel more comfortable having my family and friends around
than nobody. It makes it much easier. 
 
Q. Now, this is your first time in Frankfurt. Is there anything you know about the
city?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Nothing at this stage. I don't know if I'll have time to see anything
either.  
 
Q. So my question is, do you know the most famous man of Frankfurt?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. 
 
Q. It's Goethe, do you know Goethe?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I'm sorry, I don't. 
 
Q. It's the most famous poet from Germany.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Sorry. 
 
Q. Next question, some players bring their own partners to play practice with, why do
they prefer that?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I guess it's their choice. I don't know. I don't have anybody. I don't
have a coach either. I just arrived here myself. Maybe they find it better. Maybe they
need it. I'm not really sure what they think. 
 
Q. Do you have an idea why some players prefer one or two players as a coach?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think that also depends. There are a lot of former players that know
about the tour, but there are a lot that didn't play on the tour and they are pretty good
too. I think it all depends on who is around and who you know well. 
 
Q. Do you miss them here?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, after thinking that I have the chance to play, I think if he had
played here it would have been good for him. It would have been fun for everybody else,
but at least, I have a chance to play and hopefully, I'll do as well as he would. 
 
Q. When did the ATP Tour reach you to tell you you have to come here?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I found out probably around Friday evening. So, a couple of days then. 
 
Q. Where had you been; at home or maybe already on holiday?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I was in South Africa at the moment. So I was there one or two days and
I had to come back. 
 
Q. You are here for the first time. What did you know about Thomas Enqvist?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I haven't played him in the last couple of years and he has improved
for the last couple of years. I haven't played him this year. I played him last year, so,
it's good to know how much he has improved. I think playing him one time or another, I'll
be able to know how much better he is. 
 
Q. Last question, what kind of relationship do you have to your racket?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Sometimes it misbehaves. No, I think it's me. I don't know, it helps
me. If I didn't have one, I wouldn't be here so I thank it for that. 
 
Q. Is it your friend?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, it can be. It's definitely with me all the time, so it has to be
my friend. 
 
Q. Since you are coming in from South Africa, does that mean that after you there is
nothing?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: At this stage, there's nothing, yes. 
 
Q. I'm sorry, maybe I should know this, but I'm from Holland and we don't know anything
about you. How did you get this far?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I was lucky. When I was younger, I was one of the last ones to be
funded by the Federation before the money disappeared. So I got a lot of help from them
and they helped me a lot. 
 
Q. Is it an elite sport?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, not at this stage. It's difficult to be because we don't have any
tennis there. The only thing which might help is - probably be good is the Davis Cup, but
we don't have a tournament. 
 
Q. But there's plenty of courts?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: The weather is fine and there are a lot of courts. The enthusiasm is
not there. Nobody is really enthusiastic to play tennis anymore. 
 
Q. You have not been able to change that at all?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No. 
 
Q. When was the last time you played a match in your country or an organization?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I just played Davis Cup there in February. That was the last time. 
 
Q. How many people came to see you?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: A couple of thousand, not too many. There is a lot of other problems
involved. I don't know. It's a difficult situation. 
 
Q. Are you talking about Davis Cup (INAUDIBLE)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: At this stage, yes, I think we have until Wednesday of next week to
decide. 
 
Q. Indoors or out?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't know that yet. That's what they say. We have a couple of
choices, but they are not really sure yet. I like it. It's quite nice. I think the court
surface is a little bit (inaudible) in the last couple of weeks. The coloring is good to
play tennis on. It's difficult because, it's only a single sport so you have to take your
time to get used to it. It's good.  
 
Q. In South Africa you are a national hero there. I saw a documentary on the
television. How can you handle this? I heard that everybody wants to call his (INAUDIBLE)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I don't go back to South Africa very much so it's not really that
difficult, but when I'm there, it's quite difficult. All the people want to be my friend
and sit and talk and sometimes it gets a little irritating. When I go home, it's nice to
have some support. I just try to hopefully try and (INAUDIBLE) and get some people to play
and get enthusiasm with tennis, but it's difficult. I mean I don't really mind it. 
 
Q. What is the most popular sport in South Africa?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Rugby and soccer. 
 
Q. Tennis is in third position?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Fifth, sixth maybe. 
 
Q. Are you involved in politics in South Africa?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Nothing. 
 
Q. Do your sportmen ever talk about politics there or is it --
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, I'm not a politician. I mean, this year I have only been there one
week this year. I have not much time to do anything.  
 
Q. Only one week?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yes. 
 
Q. What do you expect about this tournament?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I'm glad to be here. I'm glad to play. I think all the matches are
going to be really difficult. I don't expect too much. I'm playing against a lot of guys
that are ranked higher than me. I think I have a good chance to do well if I keep playing
the way I've done in the last couple of weeks. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think the group is very tough, a very tough group. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Just the thing that is important is always to take off time for me.
It's something that comes and goes away. There's nothing I can really do for it so the
week I had off, last week, was good for it. Now, it's fine, yeah. 
 
Q. On Thomas Muster, what do you say about him and what quality would you like to have
from him?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think, you know, something that he has that most other people don't
is he has the ability to play and give 100 percent every single match he plays. I think
that's difficult in the amount of tournaments we play and the amount of tournaments and
matches we play, it's always hard to get motivated for every match. That's a quality he
has much better than everyone else. 
 
Q. Does he earn to be No. 1 in your opinion?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Does he earn to be No. 1? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think he deserves to be 
 No. 1 for the matches he has won and the tournaments he one, but I think for the game
that he plays, he shouldn't be No. 1 because he's not good on every surface, but if you
take away that aspect, I think he deserves to be No. 1, yes. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: In Johannesburg I'm not sure what surface -- 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yeah, they did. I'm not the man to talk to about that. I don't really
know too much about it. The man walking around here is starting to be, you know, Gordon
Forrest, is the guy to talk to. He's around here somewhere. 
 
Q. I also heard a story that maybe you're playing in Austria because of financial
problems?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That will never work. The only thing we have in South Africa now to
save us is tennis. We're not going to give it away, that's for sure. 
 
Q. When you were in Paris and you were expect (INAUDIBLE) you were suffering from some
pain, I don't know exactly where. How is it going now?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I had a good week last week. I rested and I feel a lot better now
and I'm ready to play again. 
 
Q. You said you wanted to get your rest for 10 weeks?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, not anymore. 
 
Q. Are you complaining about that?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, definitely not. 
 
Q. What are your expectations in this group?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Not much. It's a tough group. Everyone is good. I've been playing well
the last couple of months. I actually had beaten Sampras the last couple of weeks. The
chance is there if I play well and I carry on playing the way I have, I have a good
chance, but it's going to be tough very tough. 
 
Q. But your physical problem is okay?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: At this stage, it's fine so far. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It was a difficult match because I wasn't able to serve that well
especially against someone like him. I have to serve well and volley and I wasn't really
able to do that. It was difficult. He play exceptionally well now.  
 
Q. What is your goal for this year; are you thinking about next year?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, my goal for this year was to finish at No. 10 and I finished at
No. 9, so, I'm happy with that. Well, next year is next year. I have to sit down and think
about that. At this stage, I really haven't thought much about next year. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I've played some of my better tennis this year, so I'm sure it does. 
 
Q. But you played your best tennis on different surfaces?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: This year I had a good year. This year -- last year I only won on hard
courts. This year I won on hard courts (inaudible) the place -- indoors, so I had a good
year in everything. I was pretty consistent. 
 
Q. When you lost to Muster in Rome, you were furious?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yes, it was definitely a match I should have won. 
 
Q. Is that your biggest regret of the season?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, not the biggest. Obviously it was the way my tournaments were
played in the summer in America. That was pretty bad. I had a very bad time there.  
 
Q. You went back to your old racket?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It's the same racket. It's the identical racket, but I wanted to change
the color, but they changed the color, but they didn't make the racket the same. 
 
Q. What is the name of your racket?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Dunlop Revelations. It's the same racket, but they said it was the
same, but it didn't feel the same. It was a lot of problem, not with the racket itself,
but it was too light in the head, the weight wasn't the same. 
 
Q. In South Africa they talk a lot about rugby and not much about tennis?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That's difficult because they play so much rugby and soccer inside and
all we have is the Davis Cup and the most we can play is three times a year. There's not
too much enthusiasm. They don't show too much tennis on the T.V. either. See a lot of
people have lost interest in tennis. I mean, I don't blame them in a way, it's difficult. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, he's doing with the rugby. But not with tennis, no. 
 
Q. Have you seen anything changing in South Africa?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, the Federation has been changing. They have got new people
involved starting off with trying new ideas, so, I think they have a lot they can do and a
lot they wouldn't do, so we'll see how things are going to change in the next couple of
months. The Davis Cup next year is going to be important to see what happens. 
 
Q. 50, 60 percent?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I would say depending on what surface we play on, it would be 60
percent. 
 
Q. Clay or grass?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: It depends indoors or grass. It depends on what they can make. It
depends on the money situation. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Have they asked me, I've given them my opinion. 
 
Q. What is it?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think we should play on grass. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: We don't have any tournaments on grass so we can make a grass course.
It's easy to make a grass course. 
 
Q. But there is rules that say you cannot?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: That's not true. I played against India on grass last year. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: We don't have any tournaments. How can we pick which one we can play
on. We don't have a tournament, so we don't have a choice, so it's nothing we can't choose
really. 
 
Q. Are you sure about this?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I'm not sure, no. 
 
Q. Honestly, you can choose, you can pick only the surface where there are some
tournaments played in that country (INAUDIBLE).
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: We don't have anything. We have no tournaments. 
 
Q. So you can choose the surface?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I guess. I think we can choose. I'll find out. I mean the Federation
should know that. They should know the rule already if they do and they haven't said
anything so I don't know. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: We have an indoor court home. 
 
Q. Home, do you mean Paris?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: No, South Africa. 
 
Q. This time of year (INAUDIBLE)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: This time of year is not Paris time, it's too cold now and I
(INAUDIBLE) it's too cold rather. 
 
Q. Does rugby have an effect on tennis? Why is it in such shambles?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Good question. Nobody knows. I think the basic reason is you need to
send a lot of juniors overseas and get some experience and play against people their own
age and for the rest of the world, and our Federation doesn't have the money to send
anybody so they lost out on all that. (INAUDIBLE). They don't really show too much. Like
now, this week is great. They are going to have this week on T.V. which is great and they
have Bercy on. The people seemed to have enthusiasm. The people seen from Paris that the
tournament was unbelievable. Everybody was crazy about it. They thought it was great. You
get the French and the Wimbledon. That's it. Not very much people see it, so they don't
get involved with it. 
 
Q. So you're definitely (INAUDIBLE)?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Everybody said that I was injured not playing last week, I just didn't
want to play last week. 
 
Q. You just wanted a week off?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I didn't expect to be here this week anyway. So I just didn't play.
Last week I had off. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Yes, it wasn't very good in Paris, but it was a lot worse in Lyon. It
was okay except it did affect me a lot on the serve. When I went forward, it hurt a lot.
When I stayed back, it was okay. 
 
Q. How is it now?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I haven't felt any problems yet so it's fine now, we'll see. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: Well, I think I'm going to do the same next year as I did this year. I
played maybe 16 tournaments. I don't play-- I didn't play the Grand Slams which I'm going
to play (INAUDIBLE) the rest I want to play. I'll play maybe 16 tournaments and whatever I
want, but not really that important. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I mean, I play about 28 singles this year and then 16 doubles. This is
a lot of tennis. 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: We are going to play the Australian Open next year. I might play a
couple of others. 
 
Q. But the fun is not as good as it was in those times?
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I agree with you. Now, it is too much business Lifestyles are
different. 
 
Q. Do you think it would be good to combine the Grand Slam and the final (INAUDIBLE).
 
 WAYNE FERREIRA: I think it would be better if they did that. It would be a lot better,
but I don't know what the situation would be (INAUDIBLE) I guess if they can sort it out,
I guess they can come to some solution. I think it would be better for everybody. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT