RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 16, 1995
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened in the end?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  The way I was playing it was the least I could do; least I could do, win at least couple of more games towards the end. 
 

Q.  What was the happening early; you got those easy breaks?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Just played badly, I mean, I don't know, didn't serve well.  Didn't do anything well at all.  Just played really bad tennis throughout and even towards -- even when I broke him back, I couldn't even play that well.  He just didn't play as good as he did at the beginning. 
 

Q.  Did you sense him maybe a little tight serving for the match at 5-2?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, he was a little.  I did play one or two good points.  I think he, you know, he thought he was going to win the game easily, so he didn't try as hard, but then 5-3 when I broke back 5-4, he was a little nervous. 
 

Q.  Was there a time when you got to the tiebreaker you thought, well, if I can get by this, maybe I had can pull this out somehow? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I played some good points in the tiebreaker there.  I think it was at 5-4, he was serving, I played a good point and I got unlucky, but I felt if I could win the tiebreaker, I would be back. 
 

Q.  Were you just not mentally into it at the beginning?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Hard to say; just didn't do anything well at all.  Hard to say what it is. 
 

Q.  Especially disappointing after the kind of memorable one you had here last year?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Just disappointed.  Doesn't matter what it was.  Disappointed altogether - the whole effort.  The way I played last couple of weeks been disappointed; doesn't make a difference what it is. 
 

Q.  What kind of -- when you are out there when, you know, you are not playing well, what do you try and do inside to try and build up?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I try to hang in there, just maybe hopefully try and get better and I mean, I had got back to 5-All, 6-All, but still didn't feel comfortable the way I was playing.  Difficult when you are not hitting the ball well.  It is difficult to change it, especially when the game goes so quickly.  
 

Q.  Was the heat a factor for you?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No. 
 

Q.  What are you actually feeling, just anger at the moment?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Nothing really.  Just disappointed really.  I am just not playing the way I'd like to play.  It is tough because I have been playing good practices and working hard and trying the best I can.  I don't think it is anger.  It is more just disapointment really. 
 

Q.  You can't put a finger as to the reason why?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No. 
 
End of FastScripts.....

 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT