COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 6, 1994
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Wayne, can you tell what actually in today'S  game do you need to get into the top 10; what do you  think?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Today's match I played  pretty well.  I just ran into a patch where I didn't  serve too well, but besides that, I played as well as  I'd like to.  


Q.  Would it be enough to get into the top 10  because this was -- the past year has been one of your  best; you are so close now.  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, I think the mental  side is the main point in time.  I think the game --  the game is fine.  I mean, I am hitting the ball well.  It is just like today, I think I served, for a patch,  badly.  


Q.  Are you working on that part of your game?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Some days it is good; some  days it is difficult.  Today, the thing that is  difficult, when I was serving badly to know what I was  doing wrong it is difficult.  Sometimes I know and  sometimes I don't.  If I don't, it gets a little  frustrating or difficult.  


Q.  It sounds like a coach's job to me.  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah.  I mean, that is the  thing.  It is something that I need to try and figure  out for myself.  


Q.  When you look back on 1994, it really has  been a superb year.  What would be the one thing that  you would put it down to?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  I think enjoying the game  has been the most important.  Last year wasn't so much  fun.  I had a lot of stressful times and stressful  feelings throughout the year and I overcome those,  sorted out what they were and got rid of whatever was  doing that for me.  It has been fun for me this year.  I have well.   I have enjoyed it.  I have played a lot.  But I still have fun every match I played.  I got the  usual frustration and usual upset, whatever, but I  think I have been able to deal with it and overcome it  a lot easier than the years before.  


Q.  When the sports (inaudible) South Africa was  gone, did you notice any changes for yourself?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I think most all the  countries when we were still -- I think all the  countries that we were allowed to always had a good  feeling for us and always welcomed us into the country  and then when the ban started we went to the countries  we were allowed to they were very nice to us.  The only  thing I really felt about the ban was being able to  schedule my tournaments.  A lot of times I wasn't able  to schedule and say I will go here.  Everyone has been  really nice for us.  


Q.  That of course is the Davis Cup has come to  it, Davis Cup?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, well, I have played  the last couple of years, EuroAfrica 3; playing in  Tunis, those kinds of places; trying to get my country  back to the World Group and we have made it now and we  have a good chance in our first round, so hopefully it  has been important to our country as it is for us.  


Q.  It is important?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, for us, it is  important.  I don't know how important it is for the  country.  The last Davis Cup matches we played have  been really disappointing for us.  Hopefully now that  we are in the World Group and we are playing a decent  country, so to speak, people will give a little bit  more into the tennis and maybe support us a little  better than they have been.  


Q.  I don't know about having an easy next round  in next year's World Group.  What are your thoughts  about being in the World Group?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  It is fun.  As for the  match, we have -- I am sure there are a lot of  countries that are on paper a lot more difficult than  they are.  It is a country that I think if we had to  pick a country in the World Group that was the best one  for us to play just because South Africa has such a  rivalry with Australia and the cricket and the rugby  and everybody in South Africa always knows about  Australia and to play at home against a country like  that, it should be inspire all the people back because   -- in South Africa because we have such a rivalry  against them.  


Q.  Who is your coach now?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  It is still has been Chris  Johnson that I have had for the full year.  


Q.  What about today's match, last year you beat  him in the same round.  After you won the first set,  what was going through your mind?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I mean, I played -- I  think I played just as well.  I hit the ball just as  well throughout the whole match.  I think the only  problem that I had was all the -- of the whole second  set, first two service games of the second, I was  having to win my serves on the second serve; win the  game on the second serve, and you -- I did it for so  long, but after a while, it gets very hard against  somebody like Boris who is putting a lot of pressure.  I think the only problem that I had was the serve.  


Q.  Next year, are you going to play a lot of  European clay court tournaments again?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  My schedule as such is I am  going to play one less than I did this year, which is  still quite a few, yeah.  


Q.  You seem to like the clay?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I don't at all.  I don't  at all.  But it is a surface that is very beneficial to  my game.  It makes me learn a lot.  I don't  particularly like it as much as the other ones, but I  find it necessary for the building of my game, for the  movement, for fitness, for all kind of things, I find  it very beneficial.  


Q.  You say you set yourself a goal for 95?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, obviously I think the  Australian Open is going to be important for me to try  and do the best I can to make the top 10.  I think I  have a good opportunity and chance to do that if I can  start the year off well.  I think for the whole year  obviously I was in the running for the Master this year  and came a little short.  I think I left it a little  bit too late.  I'd like to start the year off well next  year and maybe give myself the chance of making it from  the beginning of the year and not have to try and push  it as much as I did towards the end.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT