COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1993
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Wayne, you must have been pretty pleased with  the way your game is going -- well, from the word go,  because you didn't make any unforced errors.  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  He battled quite a lot on his serve and on  the return.  I tried to take advantage of that and keep  a good game and just keep in there and make him play a  lot of balls because he was missing a lot.  I didn't  really want to go for it too much, just make him play,  and I think it worked out pretty well.  


Q.  Where can you sense that Boris' game has  slipped from the times you have played him in the past?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I think a lot of it has to do with the  confidence.  He played some games where he served three  aces; then other games three aces; then he served three  doubles.  I think it is just -- his mental side, he is  a little bit worried about how he is playing, and he is  not doing the things that he used to do.  I mean, he is  hitting the ball well at certain times, but then other  times he goes off pretty badly.  


Q.  Did you sense today that his backhand was  particularly vulnerable?  I mean, you played a lot to  it and you got a lot of points off of it.  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  I think it was pretty vulnerable, especially  on the second serve return he missed a lot.  I don't  know if he actually made that many at all.  And you  know, he was going for a lot on his forehand and he was  missing a lot there to.  Both sides he wasn't hitting  the ball as well as he usually does.  


Q.  How nice is this for you, you haven't done  quite as well as you probably would have hoped to have  done this year?  

WAYNE FERREIRA:  Had a pretty mediocre year and the last four  months I lost first round in all four.  I saw I wasn't  feeling too good; then I had taken three weeks off and  prepared really well for this tournament so it is a  good boost for me to put in good work and to come and  play a good match like I did today.  


Q.  Thank you.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT