U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1993
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you exhausted, Wayne?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  A little tired, but actually feeling pretty
good.  I did well throughout.  I wasn't really tired throughout
the whole match.

 Q. Kind of a strange match, just going up and down and people
had-- one of you had the other by the throat and couldn't strangle
him?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I thought that is probably the way it would
be.  We both like to go for a lot.  Both of us served really badly
today.  He served quite worse than I did.  I didn't serve well
either. That made a lot of difference in the return games because
even if you are up a break or down, it didn't really matter on
the serve.

 Q. Did it bother you to play a seed in the first round being
that you could have seeded yourself?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, it is tough.  It is obviously tough to
play someone like that, but you know, if you are going to play
a seed, a lot of the times it is better to get them in the first
round because a lot of them like Petr gets better as he wins more
matches.  To get him in the first, when he is just starting off,
is probably a bit of a bonus than getting him the round of 16.


 Q. Do you consider this an upset?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Obviously, it is an upset because he is seeded
and I am not.  But I don't think -- I don't feel it is probably
an upset than it looks on paper.

 Q. How did you explain the fifth set after everything was
so close for four sets then, bang, shoot off to a big lead in
the fifth set?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I was lucky in the fifth set.  Not with the
service game that I lost, but the serving -- I managed to pull
through a little easier than I had been doing in the other sets.
 He gave me a bit of a lead in the fifth set.  He didn't put enough
pressure on me and I carried the pressure on his serve and played
the same way that I had before, but he hit it off the head a little
and gave me the opportunities on his serve which I managed to
break and then hold him on.

 Q. How come he was able to take those two games from you all
of a sudden?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, you know, at 5-Love, you think, you know,
well, obviously you are going to have to serve out; you have 2
chances serving out that game.  It is not really as important
as the first serve would be.  He held his serve easily; played
a fairly good game.  And I missed a few first serves and he came
up with some good returns, but that was just the way that most
of the serve games went the whole match.  But I was just happy
that I broke him in the next game because I think I would have
battled quite a lot to finish it off at five -- if I could serve
at 5-3.

 Q. Wayne, we know he had a lot of doublefaults even on his
first serve.  Did you feel that his pace on his first serve was
down?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  It was very surprising.  He didn't really hit
any serves hard at all.  He had 1 or 2 serves about 113, 114,
which is not really that hard.  I was very surprised on how soft
he hit his first serve and second serve, both of them.  I don't
know if he normally does that or not but it was very soft.

 Q. Do you have any indication of a shoulder problem or anything
like that?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Never heard anything.  I don't know if he had
anything or if he does.

 Q. Wayne, you got to the quarters; almost the semis last year.
 How do you see the tournament shaping up for you this year? 
What is your goal?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, after this match it makes it a lot easier,
but it will take a bit of a load off my back having beaten Petr
and getting into the stride.  I haven't really looked at the draw
and see who I am going to play.  I feel, this match today, I can
do really well and get to the quarters if not better.  I mean,
I am playing well.  I am just a few matches here and there that
I am losing close ones, but besides that, I am still playing really
well. 

 Q. Thank you.     


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT