COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1992
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Wayne, from the 7th game of the second set, did anything particularly happen?  Were you injured? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I just -- I just felt a little bit down that I lost my serve.  I got myself into a bit of trouble, and then mentally was not there for the rest of the match.  
 

Q.  Were you disturbed by the ball boy incident? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  What ball boy incident?  
 

Q.  When he -- 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Oh.  No.  
 

Q.  Is this something which has happened to you before? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  For the last two months, since the U.S. Open, I have had a bad, really bad matches.  It has happened quite a lot.  I think that is what probably started it off today.  I just -- bad time that I have had since then, the way I have been playing and everything, got me into a bad state of doing the same thing all the time, and then badly when I start losing kind of giving up a little.  
 

Q.  Anything to do with the disappointment you felt after the close match with Chang at the U.S. Open, Wayne? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I don't think it had anything to do with it.  I think it just had to do, I took a little bit of time off after the U.S. Open because it had been a long year and I didn't prepare well enough for the Sidney indoors.  I didn't do well there and from then on I had battled to get back into it and battled with the matches and it just got worse and worse; each match I played got worse and worse.  
 

Q.  What are your plans now as far as picking up the tournaments next year? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I am going to go back home, have Christmas and then try and prepare as well as I can, better than I have than the last four months.  Beginning of the year, I am going to start down in Australia. Hopefully, I will be more prepared than I have been.  
 

Q.  How long could you practice here?  Do you have any problems with the surface or the balls and then Munich, that is 500 meters? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I have just come from Johannesburg which is 2,000. It is not a problem with that.  I just haven't played that much.  I have been on a bit of a rest and I haven't played that much and I was here day before and I practiced for one day.  So I didn't really have that much time to put in the kind of practice that I needed.  
 

Q.  Wayne, with all the tennis that you have had this year, reaching-- going into the top 10, do you think you might consider redoing your schedule for 1993 and maybe play a couple of-- few tournaments? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I am definitely going to try and play a lot less next year.  By the time I got to the U.S. Open, I was really tired afterwards and you know, I felt I had played so much up until then and I am definitely going to try and spread it out more and have more time off so that I will be able to stretch the year out longer and be more prepared for each tournament throughout the year.  
 

Q.  Do you think you will maybe set up a bed somewhere in the northern hemisphere rather than keeping going back to Johannesburg? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I got to start thinking about that now and do that a lot better, try and find a way either in Europe or in the States or somewhere where I don't have to travel as much, where I can be closer to the tournaments, and also if I play a tournament and I lose, say, like Tuesday, like I have nowhere to go and it would be nice for me to have somewhere to go, to be away from the tennis and just relax and prepare for the next tournament coming up.  
 

Q.  Is there a preference at the moment? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I am still deciding.  I have to look into something seriously.  I am thinking of a place, but I haven't made the decision yet.  
 

Q.  The fact that there is so much money involved in each match, can it make the players nervous? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, I was pretty nervous to start off today, more nervous than I have been for a lot of matches.  I don't know if it was the money or if it was just the fact that I haven't been playing that well, but it was pretty bad for me today.  
 

Q.  Can Keith put his finger on what the problem is or do you know it is psychological, it is something that you have got to work your way through? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I just feel, I think it is just that I have had a long year and I have played a lot of matches and I have got really tired now, to the last part of the year and I haven't prepared -- haven't played that much.  I have been trying to have more of a holiday and a rest to try and get myself more psyched to play tennis, and I think it is just, you know, the scheduling that I did this year was just too much.  I will probably do it better next year.  
 

Q.  Thank you. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT