U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1992
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Wayne, what happened in the third set?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  After I won the first two sets, got a little
bit-- you know, tight, because I didn't want to miss too many
balls and I didn't go for my shots.  I kind of made him play.
 He got into it.  He played a pretty good third set.  I didn't
go for as many balls as I should have.

 Q.   Was it because the first two were pretty easy for you?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I just wanted to get the match over with.
 I didn't want to start missing.  Instead of carrying on hitting
the ball the way I was, I kind of slowed down and took it too
easy.

 Q.   Because it looked like you were following his style,
his game, and he was sort of dictating the game in the third set?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Yeah, he was -- you know, first two sets I was
hitting the ball well and putting a lot of pressure on him going
for winners.  In the third set I got a little bit scared because
I didn't want to start losing the match and maybe I tightened
up a little bit, got a little bit scared to hit the ball.  Once
you get in the groove and play his kind of tennis he is very difficult
to beat.

 Q.   Do you have any problems with your serve?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Only problem is I am not getting as much percentage--
a high percentage as I like.  But besides that, I am getting a
lot, I am serving really well and pretty good.  Just the percentage,
I think, is something that I got to work on for the next few matches.


 Q.   Wayne, you have quietly slipped into the quarterfinals
as one of the people-- not one of the celebrated people.  How
does it feel?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  It feels great.  I felt I could-- somebody here
I have been playing really well this year; had a lot of good wins.
 I felt if I carried on playing the way I am, the way I was this
year, I would have a good opportunity to be here.  It has been
nice for me, having to play all my matches on the outside courts,
and not having all the media and everything around me, which has
been very nice to know just to squeak into the court without anybody
really knowing.  It has been really relaxed for me, which is the
way that I like it.     

 Q.   Do you prefer being almost anonymous here?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, you know, sooner or later, once you get
to the quarters and semis, you play on the bigger courts and that
kind of thing.  First few rounds, I think it is better for me
to play on the outside because I concentrate a lot harder.  There
is not that much commotion going on; not that many things to distract
you which I find it a lot easier to play in.

 Q.   How about your next match, Washington or Chang?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Both tough people to play against.  They are
both-- I have played both of them once before and I have had a
real tough time against both.  I am going to have to serve really
well and return really well and just concentrate, you know, the
whole match, not try and let them in if I am ahead.

 Q.   Do you think that your game is going better and better
with every match because you start off very well?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  I didn't start that well.  I had a tough first
rounds and very tough second and then my last match I played really
well and today I played you know, really well.  I am happy that
I am getting better as the matches are going on.  When the matches
are getting tougher, I am playing a lot better against the tougher
people, which is-- it is a boost for my confidence; makes it easier
for me to go out there.

 Q.   Is it usually the way you play with tougher players,
you have play better tennis?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, you know, I need to get the match practice,
each match I play I start feeling a lot better and more confident
then; obviously in the first few rounds you are not going to play
as tougher guys as you would like now.  In the quarters and semis,
so, the first few matches were good confidence wise for me.

 Q.   Do you follow your political life in South Africa?

 WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I don't.  Not at all.

 Q.   Anything else?  Thank you.  


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT