TMS - MADRID
October 15, 2003
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Wayne.  
 
 
Q.  Have you ever played with this kind of unpolite atmosphere before?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  In Davis Cup.  I think people should be embarrassed.  It's a disgrace - classless behavior from them.  They should be embarrassed.  
 
Q.  That's what explained what happened on your second match point, on the second serve? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I choked, I guess.  I hit a bad serve.  I missed my serve by a mile.  For whatever reason, I don't know.  But it happened.  
 
Q.  Until that, you played a great match.  Then until 5-2, you played really, really great.  You were a break up in the first, won the second.  You felt it could become more and more strong with the crowd? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, yeah, I mean, I played well.  I deserved to win that match.  I played better than he did.  I had more opportunities.  I just didn't win it.  I think up until 5-2, you know, I played great after that.  I think he had a lot of help from the crowd.  You know, it's a terrible feeling to lose that kind of a match, especially in that sort of situation.  You know, I'm not very happy about how it ended.  
 
Q.  The fact that at 5-2, there was the break because Juan Carlos had something, did it mean anything for you?  It was just the crowd after what happened after each fault?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I don't think so.  He served at 5-3, served a pretty good game.  He made a lot of first serves.  I played a good game at 5-3.  I served well up until 40-15.  I had three good serves.  I was up 40-15.  I went for a big serve at 40-15, had a good second serve, had a short forehand which I tried to go for a little bit too much, but tried to be positive.  Then I guess from that point onwards, it ran downhill.  
 
Q.  What about the fact that he had his ankle strapped?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I don't know.  I mean, I've been told already since I came in that his coach told him to get the trainer to come out.  He didn't really want it, but he was told to do it.  I guess it was probably a mental ploy from him to try and stall the game a little bit.  I don't know if he really needed it or not.  
 
Q.  I hope for you next year you'll beat the record of Grand Slam played in a row.  You said that you met this kind of atmosphere only in Davis Cup.  It means never on the circuit, on a normal tournament, you ever seen such atmosphere?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I've never seen this bad behavior from anywhere.  I've been on the tour 15 years, played in pretty much every country in the world, and never seen anything as disgraceful as this.  I feel pretty bad that it had to happen, you know.  Tennis is a good sport.  It's just disappointing to have something like this after a good career.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT