US OPEN
August 28, 2003
Wayne Ferreira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Wayne. 
 
 
Q.  Is this the best you've seen him play?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I've never played him before, so I haven't really seen him play.  He played pretty well.  Good player, yeah.  
 
Q.  You were close to being defaulted.  Was it the officiating that you didn't like? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I was far away from being defaulted. 
 
Q.  One more. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  That's far away.  That's far enough away.  I wouldn't have been defaulted. 
 
Q.  But you were not very comfortable with the officiating?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, I was more frustrated  -- I was frustrated in that.  I was frustrated in my tennis.  I was not very happy with the way I was playing.  I was pretty frustrated.  I wanted more.  I wanted to play better.  I wanted to do better.  
 
Q.  It was a high-quality match. 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  I didn't feel like I played that well.  I didn't really feel like I played the tennis I wanted to play.  I was disappointed in my  -- not in my effort, I tried the best I could do, I just didn't feel like I played that well.  
 
Q.  What aspect of his game was the most difficult? 
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  He moved well.  He hit the ball pretty well.  At the beginning I didn't serve so good.  I think that was a huge factor, my serve wasn't good enough.  He returned very well in the second serve, made a lot of returns back.  Always seemed to be struggling on my serve quite a lot.  I didn't really have any free games.  I think the return game from his side was pretty good.  Then again, you know, I didn't really serve that well.  So I think if I'd served better, it might have been a little easier on my serve games, and I could have had more time to concentrate on his serve games.  
 
Q.  Before your injury at the French, you had hoped to make the Masters.  Is this still?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  No, probably not.  I did have a chance.  The French kind of ruined the rest of the year for me.  It's disappointing.  You know, I'm obviously very frustrated about it.  But that's life, you know. You have your ups and your downs.  I'm still going to try to compete as hard as I can, and try to finish with my ranking as high as I can.  But I don't think that's a possibility anymore. 
 
Q.  Physically you're a hundred percent now?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Not really, no.  I'm actually sore right now.  Actually, I was hurting beginning of the fourth set, I started hurting again.  No, I'm not a hundred percent.  
 
Q.  What are the tournaments you're going to play between now and the end of this season?
 
WAYNE FERREIRA:  Well, there's a possibility I might play Davis Cup.  After that, I have scheduled to play Lyon, Madrid, Stockholm and Paris.  Those are my last four for the rest of the year.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT