BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2017
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Greg, excellent start to your title defense here.  Just comment on your first round.
GREG CHALMERS: You know, I played pretty nicely.  I'm really thrilled.  I got away with a great start, (indiscernible) the 15th hole.  And I tucked it into 5 feet, birdied that, birdied 11, birdied 12.  I think I birdied 12 as well.
I was out of the gate pretty quick.  And shoot 5-under there with ten points on the first nine holes.  It kind of slowed down a little bit on the back nine, had some good chances early and didn't get out of the hump.  And then hit one loose shot and made double.  But I had -- I picked up a birdie coming in, and 11 points, I'm happy.
Q. Talk about your comfort level on this course right now.
GREG CHALMERS: I think the better I'm swinging, the more comfortable I am.  If I know where the ball's going to go.  I've been driving it okay.  And when I hit good iron shots I've been rolling the ball okay.  So it's just a matter of if I can get the ball in play off the tee.  And if I get a chance on the green -- I'm just trying to hit as many greens as I can and give myself a chance because I am rolling the ball pretty well at the moment.
Q. You're taking the title defense pretty serious, aren't you?  You want to do really well?
GREG CHALMERS: It's a serious game sometimes, isn't it?  I don't know if it's that, but I just -- I got away to a great start and used that momentum for a good score.  And it just so happens that I'm defending the championship.  But, yeah, I'd certainly love to be around there somewhere on the weekend.
Q. And a few weeks left before the playoffs.  I know that's on your mind as well.  Just comment on your goals going down the stretch.
GREG CHALMERS: It would be a big result for me, right now where I am on the list, at 170-something, nine or five, to make the playoffs.  So even just to do that would be a big result.  So first steps start tomorrow and continue on.  If you can have a good week this week -- even if I did that I'd still like to have a great week at Greensboro.
Q. So, 11 points after the first day.  Are you happy to be in the mix here after your first round?
GREG CHALMERS: So far, so good.  (Indiscernible) luck, I got away to a great start there.  I hit off the 10th tee, birdied the first three holes and then hit 10 points just in the first nine holes, was 5 under par through six.
Things slowed down a little on the back nine.  And that happens sometimes, you can pick up points really quickly.  And sometimes it just, kind of have a lull.  I hit one loose shot, made a double, but I bounced back and birdied the next hole.  If I can hit some greens tomorrow and I'm rolling the ball nicely, I'll have some chances.
Q. I know we talked to you a couple weeks ago about being back here at Montreux.  But as you were walking around today were you flooded back with memories of winning last year?
GREG CHALMERS: To be honest, not really.  I was just really trying to hit better shots, and then some of the shots I was hitting, I was trying to get really focused on because I got some momentum going early.  I think that would help if I was in a great position coming on Sunday.  But you know here on Thursday morning it's not as relevant, I guess.
Q. Left a couple points out there.  Gotta be pretty pleased where you're sitting right now?
GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, there's not many times a golfer is thrilled with, oh, I did this, I should have done that.  But that also has to be negated against or balanced against the putts that did go in, you know, on 15, the 18-footer I holed there.
I'm pleased.  I'm happy with 11 points.  Would I have liked to hit one shot different?  Yeah, sure.  But I don't think there's a professional golfer or even an amateur golfer who doesn't walk away wishing they had at least one.
Q. How important is it to put yourself in a good position after the first round so you don't have to dig yourself out of a hole?
GREG CHALMERS: It does matter here because guys can get 18 points and sometimes more if they get going with eagles and birdies.  There are opportunities there, particularly when the wind doesn't blow, because length is not an issue for a lot of guys.  It is for me a little bit.  I don't hit it as high as some of the guys.
A lot of these guys can reach the par 5s and have a lot of five-point opportunities.  And you can get going here.  There's a lot of two-pointers out there if you start to roll the ball well and hit good shots.
Q. Are you carrying some confidence from your success here last year?
GREG CHALMERS: That was 12 months ago.  So my confidence is all based on my recent performance and I can't say that that's been fantastic.  I've taken it that was a good day today, and I've got to prepare and get ready for tomorrow.  And I'd like to strike the ball a little better with my irons and I think I'll be pleased.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT