HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2014
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Greg, nicely done today, 7 birdies, a couple of bogeys, 65.   Thoughts on how you played? 
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, I played nicely.   I was disappointed with one thing, and that was the bogey on 6 ‑‑ sorry 7, the par 5.   There are only two par 5s out here, and I bogeyed one of them and nearly bogeyed the other on 16, too. 
Look, to get ‑‑ it's great to get away to a fast start on this golf course, because it really doesn't give up a lot at certain points in the midsection there, 14, 15 and 16, or 14 and 15, so to be 4‑under through five holes I was pleased and on track for a good day, and I'm pleased with the score at the end of the day. 

Q.   Let's talk about the two holes after the bogey at 7 because you make a 13‑footer at 8 for par, that was a good up and down, and then you throw in a 50‑footer from off the green at 9. 
GREG CHALMERS:   Those are the ones that switch you back on again, get you excited about the back nine.   Not that I was unexcited but, look, I had, you know, like a putt that was ‑‑ probably deserved to go 10‑feet by and caught the back of the hole and went in, and you need those kinds of things when you're going to have great days. 
I got lucky there and floated on to the back nine nicely, played pretty solid on the back nine.   Played my kind of golf, hit some scrappy shots, but I hit some nice shots and took advantage of it when I got some good breaks. 

Q.   22 putts today.   The stroke looks magnificent. 
GREG CHALMERS:   Yeah, it was ugly earlier in the week.   I struggled and tried six different putters, and I went back to my old faithful one, and I just tweaked‑‑ essentially what it came down to was work harder with the right putter, and I tweaked a couple of things with my hand position, and I really rolled the ball beautifully the last two days.   I've been excited about seeing how the golf ball was rolling. 

Q.   Finally, what did you think about the scoring conditions out there today, where the pins were and the wind? 
GREG CHALMERS:   I was hoping it would be breezier.   I thought it died down there, it kind of started to die down there.   Normally guys can't reach 16, and I can't reach it anyway, so I prefer it to be a little windy.   I'm used to that.   I lived here before my kids were born, two miles down the road so I know a little bit about how this golf course plays when it's really windy, but the conditions, if you can drive the ball well, you're going to have opportunities today. 

Q.   7‑under, you're in the hunt.   Good luck tomorrow. 
GREG CHALMERS:   Looking forward to it. 

Q.   Can you talk about your round a little bit, please?   Wonderful putting round. 
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, I had 22 putts today.   The round really kicked off early for me.   I birdied the first hole from just off the front of the green and added birdies on 4, 5 and 6 to get to 4‑under.   When you start doing things like that and you have 4‑under through six holes on this golf course you start to get a little excited about how your day is going to go. 
I threw a bogey in on the par 5, 7, which, when there are only two par 5s it's kind of disappointing, but I bounced back with a birdie on 9 from about 50 feet. 
Then I came in with 1‑under on the back nine so pleasing day overall, I gotta be honest. 

Q.   What confidence does it give you for going into the final round? 
GREG CHALMERS:   All I would like to do tomorrow is drive the ball a little better, just have the confidence to swing more freely with the driver.   I didn't drive it fantastically today.   I rallied the ball nicely on the greens, and that's exciting when you have 22 putts, and I can putt well when I get confident. 
So if I can give myself some opportunities and‑‑ I did that early today, kind of slowed down in the middle of the round.   I'm looking forward to it if I can drive the ball a little better. 

Q.   How is your back? 
GREG CHALMERS:   I pulled out about four weeks, had an MRI, believe it or not I've got a little bit of arthritis in there, apparently, but not much you can do about it.   I've got some fantastic drugs and they're working very well. 

Q.   As far as driving the ball is it‑‑
GREG CHALMERS:   No, not at all.   If it was that bad, I wouldn't show up.   But it's just‑‑ welcome to golf when you've been playing for 20 years, you know?   The back just seems to disagree sometimes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Greg.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT