VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2014
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GREG CHALMERS:   I'm thrilled.   I mean I had two chip-ins on my back-9.   On the front-9, I think I only hit a couple of greens in regulation.   It wasn't that I was playing terrible, just missing greens and had easy up and downs and got that done. 
But you take 3-under here -- I think the guys in the morning got the worse end of the deal with the draw because it really wasn't too unpleasant out there this afternoon.   I'm surprised some more guys didn't shoot lowers scores.   The course is tough.

Q.   What was the biggest differences weather-wise you saw from warming up because it was cold and windy this morning?
GREG CHALMERS:   I heard this morning it was blowing.   It had come down to ten mile an hour by the time I got to the golf course at lunchtime today.   It was -- the ball doesn't go so far when it's windy and cold.   I was pleased. 
Even though it was windy it doesn't bother me so much if the temperature is up a little bit.   Yeah, there's no question hitting off at 2:00 this afternoon, it's a rare occasion where that works out to your favor.

Q.   You seemed to enjoy the scores, you've had some success here.
GREG CHALMERS:   I like golf courses where power matters, you can go at it and you're right in the golf tournament.   This course lends itself to one low round and some solid rounds built around it, particularly on a week like this where the conditions have been pretty tricky.   I like weeks like that versus a week like you go shoot 27-under.   I think it's just a little unfair.

Q.   Can you go over the two chip-ins?
AI hit a shot into the 4th hole straight over the flag, that just ran one yard through the back of the green.   It was really easy chip.   I chipped that in.
Then I just missed it in the up slope of No. 6, the par 4, I just missed it just left of the hole.   Another one -- because it was on the upside it was pretty easy as well.   That one popped up and went in.   Both them were going to finish within an inch of the hole if they didn't go in.   Good stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT