WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2014
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your weather.   
GREG CHALMERS:   I felt like it almost got colder as the day went on and the wind picked up.   With a couple of key par‑5s playing into the wind now, for someone of my length it's certainly a little trickier.   You have to wedge the ball close and take opportunities when you can.  
But I'm really pleased with how I handled it, and I'm pleased with 67.  
   
 Q.   All publicity around here is all around the holes 15 through 18.   Do you look at those holes as opportunities or just a temptation to get you into trouble?  
GREG CHALMERS:   I think they are great opportunities, but they don't give you the birdie.   You have to hit good shots.   I mean, there is still a whole bunch of water on a lot of them, and then you have to get through 16 with hopefully no one distracting you somehow.   
I managed to make birdie today after yesterday's bogey.   It's pretty exciting little run of golf.   I think the fans love it.   I think, as players, we really enjoy it.  
It's even better if you hit good shots.   It's not much fun if you don't, though.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your round, what was working for you today.   
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, I drove it in play.   I didn't do anything amazing with the driver, but when I had my opportunities, I took them.   I hit a couple of wedges close on the par‑5s, and I holed some nice 15‑ to 18‑ to 20‑foot putts for birdie.   
So I got some momentum going.   The key thing for me this week is I have made three bogeys, but I have avoided some real momentum‑killing ones.   I've made some nice par‑saving putts after possibly looking at making a bogey, and then I have gone on to make a birdie after that.   Gave me a lot of momentum sometimes.  
   
 Q.   You guys are used to playing in all kinds of weather.   Such beautiful weather yesterday, got the wind today.   How does that become a factor?  
GREG CHALMERS:   It was a little trickier today.   The ball doesn't go as far.   Had a couple of key holes playing into the wind today, with 3, the par‑5, and now 13 the par‑5, playing into the wind makes a little different animal unless you're really long like Bubba.   
We adjust, you know.   You just do what you do.   I think scoring may slow down a little bit because greens are quick.   It's not easy to putt when the wind gets blowing a little bit like that.  
   
 Q.   There have been some really low scores in the past.   What do you think it will take to win this tournament?  
GREG CHALMERS:   It's always low.   I mean, someone always finds a way.   When guys get hot and excited around here, they'll make a lot of birdies.   It will always move towards 20‑under, I would think, somewhere in there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT