WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2014
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   6‑under par, really well played.   
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, I had patches where I was drawing the ball really well.   I really rolled the ball well on the greens today.   Saved myself with a couple of 10‑foot putts for par early in the rounds.   
When I drove it in play and drove it well, I had some really good opportunities and took some advantages on the par‑5s with wedges, knocked it down a couple of times, so I'm very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Nice to get some momentum going early in the tournament for you?  
GREG CHALMERS:   It's kind of important.   It's a low‑scoring event.   It seems like it's hard to catch up sometimes.   You have to have at least one, two low rounds, really, at least to compete out here.   
I had a nice one today and we will see how the next few days go.  
   
 Q.   Coming off the Aussie summer season, do you think you're more in game shape than some of the other players in the field?   
GREG CHALMERS:   Well, to be fair, I only played one event down there, and I took a lot of time off.   I think this year I feel more ‑‑I like the idea of being a little more refreshed, playing less golf.   And that's why you see guys like Adam Scott taking time off right now because they played so much golf off at the end of the year.   Have to take time off at some point.  
I feel pretty good about it right now.  
   
 Q.   Comment on the 17th hole, the eagle there.   
GREG CHALMERS:   Yeah, I hit a tee shot that I was concerned, carry on the bunker was 270, it's kind of on the edge of what I can do.   Ball's going a little further today, and it was a little flatter flight than a wanted.   
Just carried the bunker and ran up about four feet.   Then I got some wonderful advice from people in the crowd saying it breaks more than you think, it breaks off right edge and really it's a left‑edge putt.   
Someone yelled out something in the middle of my back swing to go ahead and make it.   So anyway, I hit a good putt and it rolled in.   
It was really great after bogeying the previous hole 16, always a tough hole to get through.   Nice to get out of there with something under par, but it's nice to make it eagle.  
   
 Q.   Might not have been so good if you hadn't made the four‑footer, somebody hollering in your back swing?  
GREG CHALMERS:   Yeah, that's right.   Look, it happens out here.   I actually concentrated through that pretty well, and I rolled a nice putt and managed to get it in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT