RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 1, 2013
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Like to welcome Greg Chalmers into the interview room here at the Reno Tahoe Open.   (Audio interruption.)   
GREG CHALMERS:   So, yeah, you need a Masters in calculus sometimes to figure out the angles.   I'm very pleased.   I wouldn't complain at all about any shots I left out there.   
I think there will be times you're going to miss a four‑footer or two out here this week, particularly with weather like this.   
   
 Q.   You played here quite a few times and made the cut the first three times and then have not done as well here since; is that right?   
GREG CHALMERS:   Yes.   You know, I've had ‑ not a lot of hate ‑ I really enjoyed it when I first came here.   I think in the past I haven't come here with the right attitude.   I've come here kind of hoping to play well rather than expecting to play well.   
This week I don't have a choice.   You know, it's my seventh week in a row.   I'm 118th on the FedExCup, and so a bad attitude is not going to help me.   So I am trying to approach it with a good attitude and good energy about it.   
So, yeah, I really think in the past when I haven't been successful here sometimes it's just bad golf that week; but sometimes it's just not the right attitude within yourself.  
   
 Q.   Was there any sort of key to your hot start?   Did you feel good coming out this morning?  
GREG CHALMERS:   Well, I felt great before and started poorly.   I felt nice.   I really felt like I drove the ball beautifully yesterday in the pro‑am.   That gave me a lot of confidence.  
But when you hit a wedge in to five feet on the first and make it, and then an 8‑iron on 11 to seven or eight feet and make it, and another one in to 15 feet and make it, you start to think good things are going to happen.  
So it's a real confidence booster when you see putts dropping in and you're hitting quality shots to get there as well.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit more about where you are on the FedExCup list.   Obviously everything is new this year.   How much do you want to avoid having to go to the Web.com Tour?  
GREG CHALMERS:   Oh, more than you can imagine.   There is a lot of pressure right now.   Last week there was a lot of pressure.   Every week feels like a mini exam, a mini Q‑School kind of thing.   There is a lot of pressure on a lot of shots.   I've had some opportunities the last few weeks going into Sunday and didn't do so well.   Just put a lot of pressure on myself to get it done on Sunday and didn't get it done.  
So at every level in this game there is always someone fighting some battles of pressure of some sort, whether it be to make a cut that week or to perform for their career for that year.   There are lots of little microcosms of little results and challenges going on.   Nobody wants to go back to Q‑School.   Everyone would love to play on the PGA TOUR and FedExCup.  
   
 Q.   If you're in the 115, 120 range, are you thinking more trying to improve your position or not falling out of 125?  
GREG CHALMERS:   I came here hoping to get an opportunity to win the tournament is what I thought.   Because I haven't won on the PGA TOUR, and I think someone this week is going to change‑ it's going to be a fork in the road for their career, particularly for the guys in the field this week.   
There are a lot of guys looking to get things back on track.   So I came here with that attitude.   But, yeah, looking for a strong performance, not just hanging on hoping to stay where I am, because there are other events to play after this where I could easily fall out if I don't perform this week.  
So trying grab every opportunity I can with both hands and play well.   
   
 Q.   Ted Potter is on the leaderboard as well.   Does this course set up for lefties or is it just a coincidence?  
GREG CHALMERS:   There are a couple of key holes.   Ted and I both, I believe, like to move the ball left to right, so there are a couple key holes.  
But I don't know.   There are some golf courses, yeah, where it's really not fun for a left hander.   I could name a few that we play on on the TOUR.  
This week when I get on the tee I like it move it left to right; there are a couple holes that it's comfortable, and that is important.   
   
 Q.   Two questions:   Are you hoping this is the windiest day of the week and you don't have to deal with it again?   Obviously tomorrow you'll be in the afternoon.   What is it about this course at this altitude?   What phase of your game do you have to work on the most to adjust to the altitude?  
GREG CHALMERS:   I don't mind the wind.   I grew up in Western Australia in the third windiest city in the world.   So the wind doesn't bother me.   
It's figuring out the yardages based on the altitude and the downhills we have.   Great example on the last hole today.   I had 175 actual yards but I was hitting pitching wedge which normally goes 130 yards.   
So once you figure out all those numbers, it's quite mind boggling to think this is actually going to go far enough.  
So there are a lot of challenges.   You have to really take your time.   We took a long time to play some shots to get confident in what we're going to do.   
The winds gusts up and down here as well.   We'll be walking along and we'll be into it, and five seconds later it's downwind.   So sometimes it's when you hit, so you really take your time and be confident in what you're doing.  
What was the second one?   Was that both of 'em?   Yeah, that's it.   
   
 Q.   Obviously a good day for you.   Do you have a favorite part of this golf course, the way it lays out for you, and does it compare to any courses you've played before?  
GREG CHALMERS:   It reminds me, both the format and the golf course remind me where we used to play in Denver because of the pines and the trees and it's built on the side of a mountain.  
So that does remind me of that.   To be honest, what I love about this golf course, aside from the design ‑ I think it's a really solid design ‑ it's just beautiful.   I mean, it really is distractingly attractive out there.   It's a very pretty place to be playing golf.  
It's great enough to play golf on the PGA TOUR anyway.   But if you don't think you're lucky when you're walking down the eighth hole, little creek, I mean, it's just beautiful.   I really enjoy that part of this golf course.   
DOUG MILNE:   All right, we appreciate your time.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT