ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 21, 2012
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did that go? 
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, to be honest, I didn't have great control most of the day.   I didn't have the best control of my hands today and if you can't control the hands, you can't control the clubface.   Really struggled with my driver.   Thought I was starting to sort it out and made some birdies coming in to get to 10‑under. 
Unfortunately I wish I could have one swing back, the tee shot off 16 where I made double.   I was never going to win the golf tournament after about nine holes I figured out but I was in a good position to have a strong finish, top three or five and I blew it over the last couple of holes. 
I've had a great week and really enjoyed all the local support and it's been a really exciting week for me.   I have not played professional golf here for so long and it's been just fabulous.

Q.   You mentioned the local support, are you surprised or happy to see so many people out here?
GREG CHALMERS:   It was explained to my early on in my career, don't be surprised how many people pick up and watch what you're doing.   Perth is where my family's lived now, and my wife's from here, so, yeah, it's been‑‑ I don't know if it's surprising is the right word.   It's just been nice to see it firsthand.   I knew I had a lot of support in this town, and a lot of friends who keep an eye on me.

Q.   Will we see more of you on the Australian tour this summer? 
GREG CHALMERS:   Yeah, I'm going to play the Open and the PGA to defend what I won last year.   I can't get back to the Masters.   It's just the date is not working out so well right now.   But yeah, I'll be back and I'll be playing.   I come back every year and do‑‑ I enjoy it.   I love coming back, and as is evident, the response you get out here in Perth. 

Q.   Good sign from this tournament, a tournament with a future, do you think, this one?
GREG CHALMERS:   Absolutely.   You're going to get bigger and better crowds all the time when people realize how good of a time‑‑ golf has become more than just watching golf; it's about having a good time when you're out here, and the things that go with that.   Certainly that's the model they use in America; gets the families out here, and I think there's a lot to be said for what they have done this week.   They have got a lot of nice marquises, people having a nice time and a few drinks and enjoying themselves.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT