ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2012
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You've shot 3‑under for today, 6‑under for the tournament, you sit with a shot tomorrow?
GREG CHALMERS:   I think, so depends what the leaders do out there.   I think Jason Dufner is playing really nice today.   The course is tricky today.   I hope it blows again tomorrow and I hope it stays dry and fast, because the greens are getting really bouncy and it's tough to score.   And I think that makes it much more doable for someone coming from behind to shoot a low number and possibly overtake everybody. 

Q.   Just on the 18th, you bogeyed, but that pin position today, very, very difficult approach, how do you go about that?
GREG CHALMERS:   Preferably hit a better drive than what I hit today.   My playing partner had wedge in and I had 4‑iron in.   So he's a little longer than me but it certainly shouldn't have been that far back. 
It really is a hole at the moment you're trying to make 4 on and get out of there.   That's what I was trying to do but ended up making bogey but that's okay, played nicely today.

Q.   Talk us through how it's a little bit more difficult and how it played especially today. 
GREG CHALMERS:   Ultimately any time the greens get firm and bouncy it changes everything because you have to be so much more accurate with your distance control and you can't afford to do what I did on the last hole which is short‑side yourself.   When the greens are soft, you can do that, just chip it up and probably make your putt for par. 

Q.   Overall, the fact that you've played here a number of times; how have you seen the course change or develop over that time?
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, ultimately, I played here about 12 years in a junior pennant final, 36 holes in one day.   I haven't played professional golf much in Western Australia the last few years.   This golf course is fantastic based on what Mike Clayton has done to do it; the members here should be happy, they have done a great job. 

Q.   How much of a belief is it that you can make up ground to the leaders? 
GREG CHALMERS:   Pretty strong actually.   I think it's doable.   I think there's a low number out there, I really do.   This golf course, no one's torn it up yet, and I think there's a 7‑under out there or an 8‑under if you drive the ball in play and things go your way. 
You have to tear the par 5s up and most of them are reachable at the moment.   If you can do that and pick up two or three more somewhere else, you're going to have a big day. 

Q.   Who do you see tomorrow sort of making some big moves?
GREG CHALMERS:   Well, Dufner's a Top‑10 player in the world, and I think Bo Van Pelt, those are the guys I know most about how they play and compete all around the world. 
For them I know these conditions won't scare them one little bit or being near the lead is not going to scare them one little bit; quite the opposite, in fact.   I think they will be the two main guys to keep your eyes on.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT