ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 18, 2012
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KATHIE SHEARER:   Thanks for coming in, Greg.   A start, you left a few shots out there.
GREG CHALMERS:   No question.   And look, I give myself a break because most of the mistakes I made today, I made a couple soft bogeys just purely out of my brain feeling a little like a mashed potato at some point. 
But I did really well after bogeying the 10th hole and birdied four of the next five and really had some nice momentum going.   But it was a nice tough stretch this morning, 16, 17, 18.   I made one soft bogey, and some good saves for pars. 
Struggled a little bit through the mid‑section, my round on the front nine.   And then really played ‑‑ the second shot I hit into the sixth hole was the best shot I've hit for a long time.   I hit a hybrid from 220 yards to four feet.   I'm happy to get in at 4‑under, really pleased.   
KATHIE SHEARER:   You said your brain felt a bit mushy, just tired, just weary? 
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, two days ago, I was in Dallas, Texas.   I'm getting better every day.   I was much better today than yesterday in terms of my performance and how I struck the ball.   I could already tell on the range this morning that things were going to be better.   I'm going to hit some balls this afternoon and I think I'll be good to go tomorrow afternoon hopefully. 

Q.   Inaudible.
GREG CHALMERS:   Oh, I wish that was the case.   I don't think I was that nervous.   Look, there's a lot of good players in this field, aside from the obvious ones.   I see a lot of young faces that I haven't seen before, and it's probably due for someone who you have not seen before to have a great week and there's probably a lot of young kids here looking to have a good time here this week. 

Q.   Inaudible.
GREG CHALMERS:   Not at all, if you drove the ball well today, you had a lot of opportunities.   The greens are perfect and the course is playing short‑ish.   We are reaching most par 5s.   It was there for the taking if you drove the ball well but if you don't, you get out of position, certainly you can't short‑side yourself around the greens.   And you can't get on the green from out of the bush.   So it's challenging, unless you drive it well, and then you can really make some money.

Q.   Inaudible.
GREG CHALMERS:   I thought that shot was going to be easier when I got down there but I was really pleased.   I've always loved birdieing the hole before a par 5 and I did that, and it's an easy way to get momentum if you can snatch another one on the next hole. 
Great up‑and‑down on the 8th hole.   I was really thrilled with that and lipped‑out on the last hole.   I can't be anything but pleased with 4‑under.   I was really concerned after the start of the day and my start that things were not going to go in the right direction, but I stuck in there and made some good shots and made some putts. 

Q.   Inaudible.
GREG CHALMERS:   You know, I wish I could dazzle you with a bunch of names, but all I know is when I was on the range, I was the oldest by about 15 years. 
I think there's a lot of young guys who are going to pop up in the future‑‑ is it Jason Scrivener?   Yeah, and I've played with‑‑ well, there's one name that I know that I played with about six years ago, and I thought, wow, this guy is going to do something great.   I haven't seen that potential transpire just yet, have we?   I don't know, I haven't seen what he's done in his career lately.   You might know more.
Yeah, so I remember when I played with him, I thought he was fantastic.   And I thought Rick Kulacz was fantastic, and he's obviously doing things, as well‑‑ talking about Western Australia kids. 

Q.   Do you know the name‑‑
GREG CHALMERS:   No, I don't.   And I've got to be honest, I come home‑‑ I was on the range and I knew about three people out of about 30 yesterday.   So it's a little strange feeling.   A lot of the older guys that I'm used to shaking hands with don't play anymore. 
I think for a lot of the young kids that play in Australia, anyway, at some point, they need to get out and play somewhere else. 

Q.   Almost‑‑
GREG CHALMERS:   Almost is almost, isn't it.   The nature of the game. 

Q.   Inaudible.
GREG CHALMERS:   I think understanding the that first round‑‑ if you went out and shot 7‑under and you're leading the tournament, it doesn't mean as much as you might think it means. 
And I think the hardest thing for most people, and it's something I struggle with in my career is being used to being in that fishbowl; being used to being that guy that everyone is watching to see what you were doing. 
And until you can get used to that and comfortable with that and in some cases you get a lot of great players thrive on it and really enjoy it; you get to that state, you'll want it more.   But most kids when they start out, young guys, going out, shooting 6‑under, 7‑under on the first day and then feel like people are watching and then they find a way to mess that up.   That tends to be the case. 
But a lot of the American kids are the opposite, difference between Australian and American kids.   American kids are leading, and watch me go tomorrow; that's their attitude.   Just a difference in attitude.   

Q.   You mentioned being out on the range and not knowing people, how does it work socially, guys that you haven't met before, do they come up to you?
GREG CHALMERS:   No, I try and introduce myself.   To be honest yesterday I had work to do and I didn't want to talk to anyone anyway and I can be like that if I choose to be.   But if I am introduced to somebody, or a young kid that somebody tells me about or through a mutual friend, it's one of the things that I did this year.   I spoke to Tom Watson, had a practice round with him.   I wouldn't have asked him for a practice round when I was 20.   Wouldn't have had the gumption to do it. 
Then I spoke to Paul Azinger and asked him, and spoke to Nick Price and asked them some questions.   Later in life, I just said, you know, what I'm just going to ask them, what did you think about and what did you do there. 
There were young guys I was watching yesterday and how they practiced and what they were doing and there were things I saw that‑‑ wow, I wouldn't do that.   I did that when I was your age, but I wouldn't do it now.   It's hard for them to think‑‑ they can come and ask me, but I think it's hard for them to do that. 

Q.   They will ask you tomorrow. 
GREG CHALMERS:   Yeah, depends what you write.   (Laughing). 

Q.   How was the course today?
GREG CHALMERS:   Yeah, this morning everything was as close to perfect as we can get.   The fairways here, I think royal Sydney awe few years ago, I remember them being fantastic.   It's hard to pinpoint, you can say they are the best you've ever played on, they are phenomenal, the top three, five, whatever you want to putt.   You don't get a bad lie in the fairway.   And the grass coverage is phenomenal and the greens are about a nine out of ten.   They are great.   Certainly in the mornings. 
KATHIE SHEARER:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT