ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2012
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GREG CHALMERS:     I hit it right in the trees on the 1st and hooked a wedge and it went in the hole, and then birdied 2, birdied 3, birdied 4.   When you get away with that kind of start you start to believe it's going to be your kind of day.   
Even on the par 3s par I hit two in the hazard and made two bogies so, dodged a bullet there.   I really -- I rode the wave a little bit today.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your ability to recover.   Every time you get a bogey you birdie the next hole.  
GREG CHALMERS:   I've had a good round on bouncing back.   I'd rather not have to worry about bouncing back.   You're going to make some mistakes.   You got to be able to dig deep and pick up a birdie here.   Today I was able to do that.   If I continue to do that, that would be great.  
   
 Q.   Seemed likes the weather seemed to provide a nice opportunity for a lot of golfers.  
GREG CHALMERS:   It's starting to do right now, blowing a little bit like we had yesterday afternoon.   It was tricky yesterday afternoon.  
I thought about that this morning, it was just perfect and really was set-up nicely for scoring and I'm really excited.   You have to take advantage of it.  
   
 Q.   Clearly seems to be a place you like.   What is it about this course that suits your eye?  
GREG CHALMERS:   I don't know.   I feel good when I come here.   I don't know.   There's other places I feel good when I go in and miss the cut every year.   
I've had a 4th and 19th the last two years and I just -- I come here expecting to do well and it seems to have worked so far.  
   
 Q.   What does a round like this do to jump-start your confidence going forward?  
GREG CHALMERS:   It's such a long way to go.   It's my lowest round in awhile.   I'm really excited about that.   But we're going to get out there tomorrow and do it all again and see if I can back it up with a low round tomorrow.   There's -- I'm tied for the lead.   I guarantee you I won't be by the end of the day.   There's a lot of things going on on this golf course.  
   
 Q.   You say you have to go low again on the weekend.  
GREG CHALMERS:   It wouldn't surprise me.   You would have to get closer to 15 to 17 the way the scoring is going right now.   It depends on the golf course.   If the wind blows and gets firm out here it's hard to make birdies.  
   
 Q.   Were you in the trees on 1?  
GREG CHALMERS:   I hooked it into the right trees and I had to hook a wedge out from about 145 yards and it was great.  
   
 Q.   8-under par, you really got it going.   Talk about that before we talk about No. 17.  
GREG CHALMERS:   Sure.   Look, I got going early.   I holed a wedge for eagle on the 1st.   1st, kind of a little 30-yard hook I had to hit it out of the trees.   Birdied 2, 3, 4.   
When you start doing things like that you start to really think it's going to be your day and I rode the wave most of the day.   I had two bogies on two par-3s and both of them I hit in the hazard.   One of them I took a drop and got up and down.   The other one you saw what happened there.  
   
 Q.   I was trying to decide before you hit the shot on the green if you got a great break or a terrible break there.  
GREG CHALMERS:   Well, there's no question it was a good break.   It kind of was half buried into the grass but if I was going to be allowed to drop it back just up the edge of the green, I would have taken that option because it's a big risk if I hit it and it doesn't come out.   
There's a lot of doubt where it crossed.   I don't get the benefit of the doubt.   I have to go back a long way.   I decided to have a go at it and took a chance and made a good bogey in the end.  
   
 Q.   It was a good bogey and then obviously a good finish with a bounce-back at 18.  
GREG CHALMERS:   No question.   Again on 18, two good shots and go have a nice lunch.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT