FRYS.COM OPEN
October 6, 2011
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're in a good spot.   
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, look, I had five birdies on the back nine with a couple of bogeys, but to make five birdies out there I think is hard enough, so I was pleased to be able to do that. It was tough this morning for me. It was long, it was wet and cold, and so the course played difficult. I had a lot of 5- and 4- and 6-irons into greens, so I'm pretty pleased right now to be 2-under, and it doesn't look like anyone is really tearing it up at the moment. I think someone will shoot a better score this afternoon as it warms up a little bit.  
  
  Q. Are you expecting somebody to go a little low?  
 GREG CHALMERS: I think so. Someone has got to shoot 4- or 5- or 6-under I'm sure, it's just I think someone that hits it a little further and drives it a little further has a nice advantage with as wet as the course is, but I'm pleased with 2-under right now.  
  
  Q. You're 103 on the Money List coming in. How are you taking these last few events?  
 GREG CHALMERS: After last week when I made the cut and didn't move anywhere and the 125 number didn't move, only like $8,000, that was probably a sigh of relief. Right now I'm looking to do anything I can to get in contention and win a tournament. I'm probably -- this might be my last chance. I think I might not play after this over here. I think I might go back to Australia. I'm not sure what my schedule is going to look like after this week because I've got some physical issues, a knee problem I've got to get looked at. Right now I'm just trying to get through this week and see if I can play well and do something good.   
  
  Q. Will that hamper you in Australia?  
 GREG CHALMERS: I don't know. I've got an MRI scheduled for next week, so I've got to -- I'm hoping that it's all fine. I can certainly play at the moment, but if I've got to have anything done, I've got to do it in the off-season. Just got to get it looked at and make sure it's okay.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT