THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Now 11, what kind of lie did you have on that third shot on 11?   
 GREG CHALMERS: Pretty nice lie. It was actually too high. It was sitting way up, and I was fortunate I was on the side slope and the ball was above my feet. So I had a shallow path anyway. I could have gone under that ball no problem. It really wasn't a difficult lie at all.  
  
  Q. And 11 putts on either side. When is the last time you had a putting round like that?   
 GREG CHALMERS: Look, I usually roll the ball pretty nice, and if you look at most of the putting stats over the years, putting is an area of the game that I'm comfortable in, and I have an understanding of what it takes to be a good putter. I can't remember the last time I had a low one like that, but you've got to do that if you want to shoot 6- or 7- or 8-under.  
  
  Q. Two of the holes you had zero putts.   
 GREG CHALMERS: Did I chip in twice?   
  
  Q. Didn't you chip in on 5?   
 GREG CHALMERS: Oh, I putted off the edge of the green. So if that counts as zero, so be it.  
  
  Q. Last week's result aside, you've kind of been trending upwards the last month and a half or so?   
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, sure, I had a couple of top 10s, one in Houston and one in New Orleans. Last week somewhat of a disappointment, I thought. I thought I could do better than that because I love that golf course. But I was keyed up for this week and disappointed in my round yesterday. I was nervous/anxious about getting out there and making some birdies and getting things going in the right direction today.  
  
  Q. Over the balance of your career, have you felt this is a place where you could or should be able to play well?   
 GREG CHALMERS: I think this golf course tells so much about yourself, just as much as it does your game. I've always thought I'm a reasonably level-headed guy, so I would like to think I could do well here, but you still have to hit good shots.   
 The key for me is if I drive the ball well and I drive it in play, I think I can create some opportunities. But statistically over the years that's been the area of my game that's been the biggest challenge.  
  
  Q. Phil said a couple of times that Augusta actually plays a little bit better for a left-hander who can cut the ball. There are a lot of holes where you have to draw the ball off the tee here. So I'm just wondering if you like to hit a cut off the tee, is this course actually a tad easier for left-handers if you're hitting the ball well?   
 GREG CHALMERS: Ultimately, I'd roll the ball. And Phil's talking from a world where he hits a cut that goes 320 yards and my cut goes about 260, so I wouldn't find that so easy.   
 But, yeah, as a person who is comfortable moving the ball left to right, there are only a couple of tee shots that don't require that. You've just got to manage your game and manage around that.   
 But ultimately I'm trying to get every bit of yardage I can out of it, so I'm going to move left to right more often than not.  
  
  Q. So you have to work your way around here in different ways, right?   
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, no question. There are some tee shots that I think the second tee shot probably suits a lefty to cut it around there. There are a lot of right-handed guys with the wind off the left that struggle to turn the driver as much as you need to.  
 But there are other tee shots that I wish when I stand on 18 tee I look up and all I see is water. When I see right-handers look up, they're looking down the right side of the fairways, so that is a challenge. It's certainly different.   
 It gets different players on different holes, and there are plenty of different holes out there that can test your game and push your buttons.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT