THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 3, 2011
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You cannot practice for wind like this with a bogey-free 2-under par 68; how did you do it? 
 GREG CHALMERS: I kept the ball in play off the tee. I think that's the key. I stayed out of the rough predominately on the front nine. The back nine was a little scratchy and I made -- I tried to not hit two bad shots in a row if I could, I tried to get back in play and make par and I managed to do that a couple of times after a poor tee shot. I think that and I picked up a couple of birdies and I'm really pleased with the day.

 Q. How do you do that? Let's say you hit that one bad tee shot. How do you talk to yourself and just go, okay, I hit it, that's fine, it's over. Because a lot of guys say that they are going to do that, but you know, crunch time, a lot easier said than done?
 GREG CHALMERS: It's a lot easier when you're in front the scoreboard, if I'm 2- or 3-over and feel like I need to make birdie you're going to push, and I was under par after the third hole and I just felt like I could play conservative golf but I did hit some really nice shots and the holes like the 6th hole were really long today and I hit a rescue in there to like 15 feet. 
 But things like that that you need to do -- and I got up-and-down from the front bunker from the 6th hole, a 40 yard bunker shot. Sometimes it's a plan but that doesn't work, but so far so good. 

 Q. Did you know standing on 17 tee that you were bogey-free, and did it make you think to yourself, oohh, goodness?
 GREG CHALMERS: I didn't really care so much about the bogey-free. Ultimately on 17, sometimes taking bogey there, sometimes it's pretty good. So I wasn't concerned. I knew I was having a decent day. I just wanted to get to the house at best with a couple of pars and maybe a another birdie. I would have even taken bogey, par in some ways because it's just so difficult. 
 But I hit a really nice shot and made birdie, and I didn't make too many of those today. So I'm really pleased with how I finished off that Bear Trap.

 Q. And knowing that it might be worse tomorrow, is it going to be tough to relax tonight? What are you going to do?
 GREG CHALMERS: It's going to be worse tomorrow? 

 Q. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to be --
 GREG CHALMERS: You really are the bearer of good news. 
 They usually do a great job of setting things up, so I'm sure they are aware of it. It wouldn't take much more for balls to be rolling around here, you get a couple of putts, like the one I had on 18, that was really quick. Hopefully maybe five- or ten-mile-an-hour is going to be really interesting and it's going to get really difficult.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT