BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2016
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome the winner of the 2016 Barracuda championship, Greg Chalmers.  You certainly have been on this stage, consistently persistent out here.  It was a matter of time.  And with that said congratulations on your first win here in Reno.
GREG CHALMERS: Thanks so much.  You're right, it was just a matter of time.  I hoped it wasn't 386 events, but it's hard, it's hard to win and I'm very thrilled and very pleased to get it done this week.  It was a tough -- I knew today would be difficult.  And we had difficult conditions.  I was blessed I think that guys found it tough just the same as I found it tough.
And quite fortunate, I think, that Gary didn't birdie the last.  That would have put a lot of pressure on me.  But to come down the last and have a 7-iron into a par-5 knowing you've only got to make par.  It was a nice feeling.  I was very happy.
Q. And obviously with the win you pick up the last spot into the Open Championship in two weeks.  So there's certainly another bonus.  This is going to be your fifth Open Championship?
GREG CHALMERS: I believe so.  I played in '98 at Birkdale and at Lytham and played a couple -- and always exciting.  Can't wait.  It's such a great thing that the R&A and Barracuda here have done for us, even though the circumstances that came about weren't the greatest.
But it's certainly a real leg up for somebody to get that opportunity.  And I'm really looking forward to going.  I can't wait.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. You had quite a few Australian friends out there, friends and family or who was that?
GREG CHALMERS: I had my dad here in town.  He was my one fan for the first two days.  I didn't have a big gallery the first two days.
But then I had a couple of other players that are in the field and they stayed, Rhein Gibson and his family.  Shane they're both Australian, Melbourne.  Those were the ones throwing champagne at me at the end there.  And that was kind of cool.  I didn't expect that.  And kind of unique because normally if somebody wins and a lot of guys will just leave town.  So for them to stay and do that was kind of special.
Q. Did you ever get the feeling you were kind of the sentimental favorite once you took the halfway lead this weekend?
GREG CHALMERS: No.  I didn't read a lot.  I try to avoid social media and avoid the papers and all those things.  Because I made the mistake of reading one thing on social media this morning, unfortunately it said, someone on Twitter, on my Twitter account said, that guy can't close out.  So I thought I think I'll avoid reading that kind of stuff now.
And I'll be tweeting him back later, don't worry about that.  (Laughter).  But no, I don't feel like I was the sentimental favorite.  I just felt like this tournament would be proud of whoever won the event.
There were some good guys up there, some guys who, you know, Colt Knost is looking for his first win.  Gary has won here before.  There were a lot of good guys who had an opportunity there today had they shot a low score.  So I'm just pleased it was me.
Q. How did you feel having your dad here for your very first win?
GREG CHALMERS: It's crazy.  I don't know if he's going to be able to control himself tonight.  Look out if you are at a wine bar.  He might have a glass of wine or two.
Q. What were the circumstances of him being here, does he follow you a bit?
GREG CHALMERS: No, my family -- my parents are over and my father just comes out to travel with me when my mom and my kids and my family are staying back in Dallas.  So he just likes to come out and watch golf.  He plays.  And so it's good for us as father and son -- he's 72 now -- good for us just to bond and chat and solve the world's problems every night.
And that helped me just be relaxed and go out and play golf.
Q. Did you approach 18 differently knowing you didn't need to birdie to win; you just needed par?
GREG CHALMERS: No, I had no clue until I hit my tee shot.  I didn't know what had happened.  And I crushed my tee shot.  And then my caddie said:  We need to hit it to the front of the green here.  Gary's made bogey.  And that gave me a lot of confidence in.  I was thankful, because I believe if he would have made birdie I would have had to make eagle to beat him at the time because he would have been one point -- he would have been three in front of me.  Because -- I think that's right.  He was 38 and he would have gone to 40 -- I can't remember.  Anyway.
Q. You won.  (Laughter)
GREG CHALMERS: Yeah.  Anyway, it definitely made it.  It definitely made it.  It's a way more comfortable feeling, particularly the up tee.  The only issue there for me is I can't drive it right because I can reach the out of bounds.  But I'd hit some weak drives in the middle of the back nine and I had had enough of that.  So I got a little determined to do what I've been doing the previous few days and commit to smashing the darn thing, and I hit a really good drive.
Q. What did you hit second shot to the green?
GREG CHALMERS: 7-iron.  You guys get some crazy yardages here.  I had 200, I think, 10 yards to the front of the green.  And it's a 7-iron.  But, yeah, trying to 2-putt that putt and I rolled it in.  So it's great.
Q. Is it too early for you to realize that with the win you've got the exemption, you're really able to play on a schedule now and in addition --
GREG CHALMERS: Do I get two years for this?
Q. In addition to that you've got Kapalua?
GREG CHALMERS: Do I get that, too?  I didn't realize that.
Q. There's perks.  And so how nice is it that you'll be able to really map out a plan?
GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, I can't wait.  Right now I'm really looking forward to the British Open.  I'll chat with my family.  I really want to go play the Canadian Open.
Just to get back on the PGA TOUR.  I can't tell you how exciting that is.  42 years of age, I turn 43 in October.  This is a real fork in the road for my career, and it's in the right direction.  And so I'm very thankful and very elated that it came at this point.
Q. Can you talk about the physical challenges of walking this course, how you stay focused with all the hills and everything.  I saw your caddie pushing you up the hill on 9.
GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, he likes to put his finger under my belt and try to push me up there.
Look, it's certainly not something I'm going to do every day here because it can be challenging.  It's wearing enough just being in contention and then trying to deal with the good shots you gotta hit and judge the wind and judge the lies and all the stuff that you have going on here with altitude.  So we needed a bit of an abacus there at certain points to try to figure out what to do.
And then you've got to be lucky.  That was one of the things I definitely learned this week.  I had some breaks that I recognize I got a good bounce or a putt that dropped in from 30 feet that could have lipped out.  So you've got to have that.
And so, yeah, it's difficult going up there.  I'd love if they put a little cart for us going up 12 and 13, but maybe not.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT