BOB HOPE CLASSIC
January 22, 2011
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Inaudible.)
 GREG CHALMERS: I think this is probably the tougher out of the four golf courses. I started off solid. I was 1-under through five or six holes, and then I hit it out of bounds.
 I hit a really poor drive off the 15th hole, and I made a double, made a good double in the end. Played the hole nicely after that. But also I tried to -- I was staying calm because I felt like I've been playing nicely, managed to come back in 4-under on that front nine. 
 There's birdies out there. Certainly on the front nine if you can drive the ball in play, it gives you a lot of short shots in. So overall I'm pleased with the day. 

 Q. Did you find something there on those last nine holes?
 GREG CHALMERS: Not really. The shot I hit a poor shot on I just didn't do what I have been doing. I just didn't get as set as I have been over the ball, and I hit a poor shot. So I was determined not to do that the rest of the day, and I played pretty solid after that.

 Q. How do you feel about your position going into Sunday? As of now, you stand three shots back. 
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, currently, I guess, it could be extended further, I guess. They're playing Nicklaus on the other side, and PGA West, so there's birdies to be had out there. 
 Look, I think ultimately I'm going to have to shoot a low score tomorrow given the amount of guys who are within that distance. I would think I would have to shoot at least -6 or -7 or possibly -8 tomorrow. But I get a chance to do that, so it's kind of exciting.

 Q. Do you feel confident about going maybe low 60s tomorrow?
 GREG CHALMERS: So much of that comes down to whether or not the putts go in for you. I think I've been hitting good enough shots to shoot that kind of score. So if the putts drop tomorrow, that will happen. If they don't, it won't. I got to hit that first one down the fairway and go from there.

 Q. How would you rate your game coming into this tournament?
 GREG CHALMERS: Coming in, I couldn't rate it anything. I haven't played. I've been sitting around having a fat time in the offseason, not really doing a lot. I came here expecting to have to work to find my game, but practice went well prior to coming here, and I've been pleased to see how it's all come together. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT