ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2010
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GREG CHALMERS: I'm in a great position. Depending on what the weather makes this afternoon, I'm in a good place where I'm at. I could be two, three, four behind, I don't know. But could be running one behind, just depends on how the golf course goes this afternoon. But I'm excited for the opportunity for the weekend. 

 Q. The weather is one of the big story lines today. How do you think it will play a factor out there? 
 GREG CHALMERS: It's difficult. It was difficult yesterday afternoon, and it wasn't that much different. We only got two holes in today before the wind really kicked up again, blowing 16 to 20 Miles an hour and even stronger. 
 So it just makes it all very difficult to judge what clubs to hit, and sounds like that's thunder and lightning, and we might be stopping play here soon. 

 Q. What is the difference between your play yesterday and today? 
 GREG CHALMERS: Not much of a difference. I've got a nice start. Hit 3-wood to two feet for an eagle on the 11th hole and just got some momentum going. 
 It's such a fine line at this level. I didn't do anything that much different, I just all of a sudden shot 4 under, and yesterday just 2. So I'll take a couple more scores like that, and I'll be very close. 

 Q. What happened on number 11? 
 GREG CHALMERS: I hit 3-wood from 255, 258. I started the pins on the front left. I started it in the middle of the left bunker. It drew. Kicked just inside the left bunker. Kicked hard right, and it looked like it was going to go in the other bunker. It rolled up, over this six-foot mound, and I thought it disappeared. 
 I thought it was just up on the green. And then Rocco Mediate said you better watch this, and then it rolled up on the hole and only a foot away. So it was really nice. You don't get many eagles. 
 It teed up today, and they're anticipating some bad weather and maybe wind. So a couple of tees were up today, made it more playable. I had think it was a great move. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT