BUICK OPEN
August 2, 2009
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great finish to your round today, eagle and a couple of birdies within four holes. Looks like you're going to perhaps finish tied for second, which will be your career best finish on Tour. Just talk about your day.   
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah. Look, ultimately I started the day -- I was really pleased with the conditions. I was hoping it wouldn't get soft overnight. I wanted it to be firm and fast, just like yesterday and hopefully windy. That suits me. It's what I grew up on. And I got that.   
 And I got away nice start 2-under 3 par through 6. Made a couple of selfish bogeys, and really that stretch, 12, 13, 14, 15, I got going a little bit, made eagle and birdie that 60-footer for eagle. So look, I'm really pleased and excited about the way my game's going, and I'm pleased I put new [] irons in this week. They got new irons coming out. I put them in this week, and they worked really well.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: It's a good time to be starting to play well with the FedExCup PLAYOFFS coming up shortly, and you'll move up in that ranking, that standing and give yourself an opportunity to play.  
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, no doubt. I was 122nd before this week in the FedExCup so I was on the cusp of -- I had two more starts after this to even make the first one, and I want to try and get as many as I can, so hopefully this will get me inside the Top 100. And I could play a couple of events in Reno and Greensboro where I can hopefully get a little charity to get further in top 70 and wedge myself in there and play three of them. And who knows what can happen.  
 MARK WILLIAMS: Questions?   
  
  Q. Did you look at the scoreboard as you were one of the guys getting close to Tiger today?  
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah. To be honest, I wasn't really interested in the scoreboard because it wasn't till the last 6 holes that I was even close to worrying about that.   
 At one point there I was outside the Top 10 with 6 holes to go. I knew that 17 was in. I knew I had to at least get to that or better, and I would have liked to have, you know -- I knew coming down the last hole was the first time I looked.   
 But ultimately I truly believed that 19 was probably going to be what you needed. I needed to make my par on 17 to be in it, genuine opportunity to come in.  
  
  Q. When you're two shots behind him, a guy you figure that's not going to make too many mistakes over the final few holes of a tournament?  
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, that's an odd one in that any other player, you might think, oh, there's a chance, but with Tiger he's done it so regularly, I think even his peers sometimes, you start to believe he's just going to close it out.   
 I would have liked to have made a couple more birdies and just see what happened, but it does have that feel about it like he's just going to make another birdie anyway, so ultimately I'm just pleased with how I played and what I've done this week.  
  
  Q. On the Back 9 did you feel like you felt more comfortable being more aggressive and trying to, without looking at the leaderboard, trying to get these shots to try and make it up and contend with Tiger?  
 GREG CHALMERS: I just needed to make some birdies just to get into a good position. I didn't know if it was contending with Tiger. I was trying to stay patient and see if something good could happen.   
 I hit a 5-iron 15 feet behind the hole on 13. No doubt, if I was tied for the lead, I may not have been as aggressive, and that's probably something I need to think about in the future because it worked.   
 But I needed to try and get something happen through that stretch, 13 to 15, and I figured now's the time to have a crack here, see what happens. If I hit it in the water, that would be it. But I pulled it off and made a couple more big putts.   
 But I wasn't really -- I was really just trying to make some birdies to get in a nice position, Top 10 at that point.  
  
  Q. When you made the turn today, were you aware that you had been bogey free on the Back 9 all week going into that Back 9 or did you think that there were a lot of opportunities for you because of that?  
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah. I played 34 holes before I made a bogey at the start of the week, so I knew I hadn't made many mistakes this week. That's all that mattered to me.   
 I didn't know I was bogey free on the Back 9. I didn't know I was -- those kind of things, I'm going to make a bogey eventually. I'm not really concerned about that. I'm trying to hit good shots without making mistakes, and I've done a very good job of that this week.   
  
  Q. Is your status on the Presidents Cup part of (indiscernible)?  
 GREG CHALMERS: I'm a long way back in that, I would say. I'm a long way back, yes. Given --  
  
  Q. You probably have a good chance of squeezing.   
 GREG CHALMERS: I need to do more than this, a lot more. I got a one today and not so strong performances leading up to it, that would be great, but ultimately, look, there's so many good international players, and I'm so far back in world rankings, I honestly don't believe I would have gotten consideration just based on this today. But it's intriguing if I play well in the next month or so.   
  
  Q. Did you feel that with the weather changing and the wind was blowing, that it was going to hamper your game, because you seemed like you were very calm and very poised out on the greens?  
 GREG CHALMERS: I believe I'm a good putter, so even though the greens were a little bumpy, I think I'm going to get my fair share on my day. And the winds, I grew up in like the third windiest city in the world. I'm thrilled when the wind blows. It suits me.   
 It slows the scoring down for everybody else, but I still feel like I can compete. Typically a shoot-out isn't something that I excel in, like a Palm Springs or anything like that. But a week where you gotta place your ball and you gotta think a little bit, that's up my alley, and so I was thrilled when I arrived at the course and I saw the putting green was firm and the wind was blowing, I thought, well, these are the same conditions we experienced in Milwaukee when I played well. So that gave me confidence.  
 MARK WILLIAMS: All right. Thanks for joining us, Greg. We appreciate your time. Great performance.   
 GREG CHALMERS: Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT