TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2009
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Want to welcome Greg Chalmers here to the interview room at the Travelers Championship. 6 under par today, birdied 6 of the last 8 holes. Like you said, there are some scoring conditions out there. But nice to finish strong I would imagine? 
 GREG CHALMERS: I'm certainly pleased how I finished the round. I made two putts coming in on 17 or 18. I probably would have bogeyed one of the holes maybe, because they were both going 4 to 8 feet by it at some point. Especially the last hole there. 
 Really pleased with how I putted down the last eight holes there. I don't know what it was, but they started the drop for me, and it was my lowest putting round of the year, and I'm very pleased. 

 Q. You made the last three cuts so you seem to be playing better than earlier in the year?
 GREG CHALMERS: I've been hitting the ball nicely for a while. And ironically today I didn't hit the ball that well, and I putted well. I've had one good finish in Puerto Rico. Tied fourth and played really well there. Haven't had anything amazing happen, and haven't had anything really bad happen. 
 So thereabouts and looking for good things hopefully coming down the stretch here not just this week, but the rest of the week. 

 Q. You mentioned some of the putts. Any other shots stand out for you down the stretch there on the back nine? 
 GREG CHALMERS: Well, I chipped in for my fourth birdie in a row on 14. Chipped in from just off the front of the green. That was nice to keep the momentum going. And then, I really just made some nice 10 and 15-footers through that stretch there. I stood there at even par. 
 After ten holes you wouldn't imagine being 6 under. It was just sometimes on this golf course you get on a roll. You can make some birdies. It's just -- it's set up nicely to score, and I think there will be some good scores this afternoon, for sure.

 Q. Talk about the conditions out there after all this rain that we've had up in this area for the last week to ten days. Talk about and there's no wind out there, can you talk about that? 
 GREG CHALMERS: I thought the course played like if it was a hair firmer it would be perfect. It was as close to as good as you can get. Given the rain we've had, it was fantastic. I arrived and played a practice round on Tuesday, and someone told me you'd had a ton of rain. 
 And it didn't look like there was mud all over my ball or there was anything wrong. And the ball was bouncing forward on the green. Certainly wasn't anything like we'd experienced early on the west coast in the year or on anything like that. So it's very nice. 

 Q. Have you done anything putting-wise, mechanically or anything with your stroke or a new putter? 
 GREG CHALMERS: Nothing -- well, I did a lot. I actually on the third green I decided I was going to putt without lifting my head up. I was just going to keep my head in place and just strike the ball. I'm kind of a little goofy like that sometimes. I'll pick up little things here and there and change my mind. 
 So there was a chance I could ditch that three holes into tomorrow. I don't know. It worked for a little while, and I stuck with it. I'll be sticking with it until it doesn't work. 

 Q. You're high up on the leaderboard right now. I believe you're tied for third. Can you tell us about your mindset right now? How much of a confidence boost is that? 
 GREG CHALMERS: To be honest, I don't know that it matters that much. It's a great first round. There's every chance I'll be three, four, five shots around for my round tomorrow. So there's every chance there will be two or three guys that shoot 7 or 8 under this afternoon. I think the scoring is there if the guys hit the ball well and putt well. 
 Typically when someone's 6 under right now, but if someone posts a score, guys tend to chase it down. So that happens. So right now my mindset is I'd like to have a nice lunch. Go practice and come out tomorrow. There's nothing -- it's just nice to shoot a good first round and we'll move in. It's a long way to go. 

 Q. Can you go over the birdies? 
 GREG CHALMERS: I hit a 9-iron to about five feet on the first. I missed the green with the 3-iron on the fourth hole. Made bogey, chipped it to 10 feet. 
 Wedged about five feet on the sixth hole. Three-putted the 10 from the front of the green to about 40 feet. 
 Hit a 9-iron to 10 feet on the 11th, and made a 9-iron to 18 feet on 12. 
 13 I hit a wedge to about five feet and made it. 14 I chipped off the front of the green. 
 17 I hit 8-iron to 20 feet, made it. And then I just holed that putt from the left to about 35 feet. 

 Q. Is that last one was off the green? 
 GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, it was off the green to the front. 
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations and good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT