BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2016
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








What are you thinking right now?  What are you feeling, 386 starts for this?
GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, tenacity helps.  Just relief and a little bit of you just never know what's going to happen.  I could have quite easily taken this week off and concentrated on the Web.com, but I felt that my game was coming around.  And really at the start of my season I was fighting for just to get a full status on the Web.com.  I had conditional status out there.
So now to get status back here on the PGA TOUR, I get to go play the British Open and I get to play some -- back out there and play some great events I'm looking forward to it.
Q. How nice was it to finish the way you did to hit it that close on 18 with the pressure on make the eagle play?
GREG CHALMERS: Certainly made it a little easier knowing that par was going to be okay.  I just tried -- I had 7-iron in, and I just had to make sure I kept it left as far as I could see.  And I hit probably one of the only good shots I hit today.  I didn't hit a lot of great shots today.
Unique situation for me.  I hadn't led an awful lot on the PGA TOUR, and it's always exaggerated when you want to win so badly because you haven't done it 385 previous times.
So it's certainly a relief to see it finishing that close -- an easy two-putt having to hole it.
Q. Your dad was here.  What does it mean to have him here for that moment?
GREG CHALMERS: It's great.  I've been fortunate to win at home when my family is there, but to have my dad here enjoying ourselves and just catching up and those moments are rare.  It's really cool.
Q. You got emotions right now with the win?
GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, I'm just trying not to cry.  No, it means an awful lot to me.  And this tournament, historically, has been fantastic for either helping someone or resurrecting someone who is in a deep hole or kicking someone on to another level that was already on their way to another level.
So for me this tournament was huge.  Can't thank the people here enough.  Barracuda and the people here at Montreux Country Club, because it's just been -- it's an absolute phenomenal leg up to me.
Q. When your second shot settled on 18 and you knew, was there relief?  What did you feel?
GREG CHALMERS: Just joy.  Just that winning certainly is not easy, and I made it as difficult as possible coming down the stretch.  And I think I was real fortunate today.  It played a little tricky today and it was tough for guys to make a lot of birdies and catch up.
I'm blessed that I did a beautiful round yesterday and gave myself a bit of cushion today, and I was able to do what I did today.  It certainly made it look better with an eagle on the last.  It will taste great tonight.
Q. Exempt now.
GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, I'm not sure how it works but I get to go to the British Open and I think I might get to go to Hawaii or something early next year.  And really thrilled.  I can't tell you how excited I am.  It's really great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT