JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 28, 2008
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Nice start to the tournament?   
 GREG CHALMERS:  I played really nicely. Tee to green, I was really solid on my first nine hole which was the back nine and you have to drive the ball so straight around here. You've got to fit the ball around the fairways as they make you think a little bit. The greens are fairly severe but I was pleased with how I handled it. I played a bit more scratchy on the second nine but managed to shoot four under total.   
  
  Q. First time to India?   
 GREG CHALMERS:  Yes, I'm loving it. I'm a massive fan of Indian food and I love their passion for cricket. I'm enjoying myself. A lot of controversy right now between our two countries, it's good to watch from the other side of the coin. It's been interesting.   
  
  Q. How's the form coming in India?   
 GREG CHALMERS:  I've been playing nicely on the Nationwide Tour. I finished fifth and eighth in the first two weeks in Panama and Mexico and then came up here. I finished 30th at home last week. I've been doing a lot of travelling of late, Panama, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand and now India. It's been some travel.   
  
  Q. What's your playing status these days?   
 GREG CHALMERS:  I'm exempted on the Nationwide Tour. The goal is to get into the PGA Tour. I would need something to happen this week and if I win this, I'll take up status in Europe. At the moment, I'm trying to play Nationwide and get my card there.   
  
  Q. Thoughts about the course?   
 GREG CHALMERS:  It's very tricky. The more the wind blows, the harder it is. There is quite a bit of slope on the fairways and it's quite difficult to fit into the fairways. You don't get the opportunity that much to unleash the driver. You tend to hit iron and three woods and it's a difficult golf course. The greens are severe with the slopes and it's tough to have a look at birdie. I used the driver about four or five times, I think you can use it about half a dozen times on this course depending on the wind as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT