MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 5, 2001
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GREG CHALMERS: I hit a wedge to about 15 feet there and then 18 was a wedge to about five feet.  1 was a wedge 'til about 45 feet.  That was a pitch and a putt but the putt was probably 15 feet on No. 3. No. 4 was a 7-iron to about 40 feet.  No. 5 was 7-iron to about ten feet.   Bogey on No. 9, hit it in the left rough off the tee; then hit in the left rough off the second shot, chipped and 2-putted. 

GREG CHALMERS:  I am really happy where I am at the moment.  I just had a month off back in Australia, and I am very excited that I have never before come out after a break and played as strongly as I have these last couple of days, I am pretty excited about that.  I am really happy.   

Q.  Is a month an exceptionally long break for you?

GREG CHALMERS: I get a little toey after a month.  I was keen to play some golf after a few weeks, but particularly it's harder when I go back home to Australia because I love it so much.  Yeah, a month  -- a month is long enough, I'd say.

Q.  What caused you to take that long a break?

GREG CHALMERS: I just thought that if I had my money up for my card, I will take all of September off.  I know a couple of other players - we chatted with them about that.  I chatted with Kirk Triplett about it because he usually takes all of September off.  That is not a bad idea. I actually played right 'til about now, 'til Vegas, then went home last year, that didn't work very well in that I had to go home and play the Australia Open and a couple of events leading into those.  I played no golf. This way I will play four events; have two weeks off and I will play my tournaments at home as well.  I am hoping it will work better that way as well.

Q.  Did you not play at all at home?

GREG CHALMERS: Not one bit. 

Q.  Is that the whole idea?

GREG CHALMERS: Yeah.  It was great.

Q.  What do you do with your downtime?  You say you love it over there.  What -- you did not touch a club for a month?

GREG CHALMERS: There was football on Saturdays, so I just got a new barbecue, so had my mates over for footy on Saturdays and then just bought myself a sunny play station (sic) down there so we had a couple of nights.  A couple nights at the pub which didn't go too well the next day, but, yeah, it was good fun at the time.  Yeah, just do what all people do, mate.

Q.  What was on the menu at the new barbecue?

GREG CHALMERS: Sausages and steak.

Q.  You did not touch a club for a month?

GREG CHALMERS: I did with probably five days to go I did a little bit of practice, yeah.

Q.  So your friends don't want you to take them out on the golf course?

GREG CHALMERS: I can't think if I played or not.  I think I played once, there you go.  So played once in 30 days a couple of mates, yeah.

Q.  Where do you practice when your home?

GREG CHALMERS: I go to the a park, a public course, they have got a range there. I obviously don't practice too hard when I am home.  I tend to just take it easy and come out here and work when I am out here sort of thing.

Q.  So you go to the range and hit it with all the hackers?

GREG CHALMERS: I didn't say that.  It is some fantastic golfers down there, mate.  (Laughs). Yes, I go on the range and pay my money and hit balls of mats, yeah.

Q.  So, no, I mean, a lot of people would find that hard to believe you are not out at an exclusive private course.

GREG CHALMERS: I don't mind it.  I sneak out there.  It opens at 5.  I sneak out there at 6 o'clock, hit some balls, home by 9.  It is okay.  I am -- I haven't joined a club yet but I might eventually.

Q.  What was the big key to your round today?

GREG CHALMERS: Just that stretch when from the 18th which was my 9th through to the fifth I holed a lot of real estate in the middle there, so when you are holing a couple 40-footers in your round, I haven't done that for a while.  That's the kind of thing that keeps your momentum flowing and it keeps moving -- you moving in the right direction, so I guess that was the key to the day.

Q.  Do you get to a point where you think every putt is going in?

GREG CHALMERS: You can't start to think about that.  It wasn't that crazy.  I was only 5- or 6-under for the day; wasn't like I was 9 or 10, so I had that feeling before, but I felt confident, let's put that it way, but that can go against you.  I ran one by, 6th hole, about five feet because I was 30 feet away.  I thought I was going to make it.  It is just -- it  can work against you sometimes, so.....

Q.  Could you go over No. 9 a little bit better?

GREG CHALMERS: Sure. 

Q.  Your final hole.

GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, I drove it in the left rough, just short of the bunker and I thought I was going to get a flier out of the rough and I didn't.  I have a tendency -- it's strange, but I have a tendency to pop it left out of the rough rather than right, that's what it did.  Then if you want finer details then I scooped under my chip rather than hitting down the back of it and the ball just sort of slides up the face and comes up short.  I missed about ten feet for par.

Q.  After a long break like this, do you normally need a first day to get back in the groove or  -- are you much better today than you were yesterday or is it just the normal course of events?

GREG CHALMERS: Look, I was pleasantly surprised how I played yesterday based on how I practiced on Tuesday and Wednesday.  It was fairly average to say the least.  And it got better everyday, but still wasn't very good.  No one likes to say that they are surprised they have played well, but I was  -- it wasn't -- I was better than my expectations at the time got,  to be honest, how I have hit the ball.

Q.  Have you been grinding since you have been back?  Are you on the range for five hours or  --

GREG CHALMERS: No, I practice hard enough, but I don't see  -- that to me is not going to help me.  I am just going to burn myself out.  I do what I have to do, might take a couple hours, then go home, I don't stand there all day.  I am only doing that because I look at the good players out here and they don't seem to do that either.  They seem to be short and sharp, do their stuff then go home.  So I try and do that if I can.  Try anyway.

Q.  When did you arrive back in the States?

GREG CHALMERS: Sunday night. 

Q.  You have been here less than a week?

GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, spend a night in Dallas, and yeah.  Makes for interesting sleep patterns, it really does. 

Q.  Waiting  for the jet lag to hit?

GREG CHALMERS: About 6:30 I start to want to go to bed.  So it is a battle to stay up 'til 9.  Then I wake up about 3 in the morning ready to rock.

Q.  You flew Sydney to L.A.?

GREG CHALMERS: Sydney L.A., L.A. Dallas, Dallas here.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT