WORLDCOM CLASSIC--THE HERITAGE OF GOLF
April 12, 2001
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREG CHALMERS:  Sure.  I played -- I hit my irons probably as good as I have there a long time today, and as small as the greens are here that reflected in my score.  Hit a lot of solid shots and rolled the ball nicely which I haven't been doing.  I made a couple of changes with my putting, which has helped this week.  Very happy with the way I struck the ball and putted today and shot 5-under.  
 
Q.  What specific putting changes and why?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  Well, not so much here, just my coach is here this week and I asked him to look at it, and my ball position was out and my hand position was out.  Basically, my ball position was too far forward and hands too far back.  They both go hand-and-hand with each other.  I started rolling the ball forward, moving my hands forward, a lot better today.  
 
Q.  A lot of talk about the work done on the golf course.  Your impressions of how the golf course is now?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  It is great.  It is always  -- it requires you to do everything that you need to do.  You have to move it both ways.  The greens are firm so you have got to strike your irons off the middle of the face.  You can't sort of miss a shot and expect it to stay on the green.  As for changing the greens, everything is gone --  the first time in a long time everything is gone from probably down to flatter, you know, most changes they put more tiers, and more of everything in them making it bigger.  These -- if anything, they are a little bit smaller in some spots, a little flatter, which is fine by me.  It is not major drastic changes out there, not playability-wise, it hasn't changed that much. 
 
Q.  One of your best starts on the Tour this year?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  I can't remember.  I'd say so.  I think I had a good start at Doral this year, doing pretty well there. But I have been working very hard on getting on a way to a faster start.  I shot a lot of -- last year, shot a lot of evens, one-overs and one-under on the first day, and that just doesn't cut it.  You can have a good finish from there but certainly not going to be in contention. It is hard to be in contention that really far up.  
 
Q.  Were you expecting a good start?  You said you have been doing a lot of work on your game.  Did you feel like it was time for it to pay off?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  I kind of think -- I mean, I always expect it to be honest even if I am hitting it on the head, I always expect to shoot a good score.  The way I was swinging the club I was thinking:  If it wasn't going to happen today it would happen soon, I would start to play a lot better.  I haven't been  -- I have been scoring okay, but I haven't been hitting the ball as well as I'd like the last, sort of, month and a half.  I have been dying for my coach to get over here from Australia and try and sort things out a little bit.  And it's definitely going back on track in the right direction now. 
 
Q.  Coach's name?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  Dale Lynch. 
 
Q.  Describe your psyche standing on the 1st tee today compared to last week.
 
GREG CHALMERS:  Oh, it is chalk and cheese, much more relaxed, and I didn't hit anyone in the head my first tee shot this week so no one got hurt. 
 
Q.  Hit anyone on the second shot?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  No.   Last week I was 2 for 2.  This week I managed to keep everyone safe, which is good.  So I look -- I have played what, 70 or 80 events on tour now I think in the last two, three years, this feels much  -- last week I felt like I was 15, a kid out playing the game again -- first tournament, nervous, didn't know where I was going what I was doing, and consequently, I didn't know where the ball was going or what it was going to do either.  This week I was much more confident, and back on tour, it is something I am used to anyway at the moment. 
 
Q.  First two shots affect you last week?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  Yeah, I had all sorts of things going through my head.  Worse case scenario I was thinking the guy probably played two grand for ticket and waited 12 years to get it and I hit him in the head on the first shot and he had to go home.  It shook me up a little bit, never done it before.  Those kind of things always seem to happen when you are under a little bit of pressure or a little bit twitchy, freaky things that can happen, that is what happened.  I rang him and he was okay. 
 
Q.  That is what I was going to ask.  Any contact with him?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  I rang him that night.  He was a little groggy, but I think they organized for him to come back on Saturday.  So it worked out okay.  
 
Q.  Do you have a mental game coach and when you are in a situation like that how do you kind -- do you have a technique for how to catch your breath and relax?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  I do but it didn't work (laughter). My mental game coach at the moment, I have just started speaking to Debra Graham over here from golfpsyche the last eight weeks and it -- that was the disappointing thing, all the work I had done leading up to that event for that event basically went out the window.  I didn't do what I was supposed to do.  It was disappointing, but the good part about it was I know what I did wrong and I can fix it.  
 
Q.  Can you tell me what your technique is supposed to be?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  You are supposed to -- for me, I am supposed to try and concentrate on the things I can control, my breathing, the speed I walk, just really simple basic things and just my tempo and things like that rather than worrying about:  Don't hit it right, don't hit it left, don't hit that person in the head, that sort of stuff.  It is just basically, to sum it up, basically concentrating on things you can't control.  
 
Q.  66 about what you deserve for the way you played?
 
GREG CHALMERS:  I'd say so.  I hit the first 14 greens in regulation out there today so I played pretty solid and then although the greens are firm, the rough is not up so when you do miss a green I think if you miss it in the right spot your chances of getting up-and-down are decent.  So it's a fair score for me today.  I am very happy with it.  
 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT