GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2001
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREG CHALMERS:   No problem. 
 
GREG CHALMERS:   I am thrilled with the way things went today.  I -- 6-under -- I was disappointed the way things finished - I bogeyed 7 and 8 and missed a 6-footer for birdie on 18. But apart from that, I played really solidly.  I struggled the first two rounds the last few weeks, apart from last week, probably not aggressive enough.  I tried to be aggressive this week and it seems to be working so far so I am happy. 
  

Q.  Can I ask you about the left-handed, problems you might have getting high-quality equipment?
 
GREG CHALMERS:   Yes. It is tricky, it comes out eventually in a lot of cases.  But you do not have as many options.  You only have to walk on the range to see that it is fairly obvious.  There is bags and bags of right-handed golf clubs.  I have to call someone over to make one for us.  It is frustrating sometimes.  There be will be options there for you --  options for other people that you do not have.  I am waiting for a driver at the moment in 9 and a half degrees loft they don't make.  They make it 8 and a half degrees.  Just little things like that that you tear your hair out with.  I have been doing it since day one.  If that is the worst I go through, I am doing okay. 
  

Q.  (inaudible)
 
GREG CHALMERS:   Visually, it is fine, in my brain.  I am right-handed myself, one-handed.  Visually I look at it, it is a mirror image.  I grew up admiring Norman and Nicklaus so I did not really pick a left-hander as such.  Phil, as a kid, he was starting to dominate the game then.  I was really latching on to an Aussie.  It did not seem to matter too much. 
  

Q.  Did you hit it any better today?
 
GREG CHALMERS:   I did, actually.  I struggled early.  I missed the 5th, 6th and 7th greens, made pars through there, after birdieing 1 and 2.  I guess I birdied the holes, as you really should.  The momentum kept flowing after I holed that 50-footer on No. 11 for birdie.  That was in in the middle of 10, 11, 12 birdies.  So it got better every day so far this week.  I was happier than yesterday, for sure.  The golf course is set up -- it is playing particularly easy at the moment, particularly in the mornings. 
  

Q.  Why?
 
GREG CHALMERS:   Just the fairways are firm, you get a lot of run.  I am hitting wedges into holes that in previous years -- granted, I only played twice before, but I hit 6 and 7 irons that I am hitting wedges into at the moment.  I hit a 4-iron near the first hole this morning.  Normally I am hitting 3-wood in there. It is just playing particularly short. The greens are great, fast and true.  Gosh, just go low. 
  

Q.  Do you think somebody -- the winner will have scores in the mid-sixties every day, is that what it will take?
 
GREG CHALMERS:   It is always hard to pick -- I mean,  you look at last week, 10-under was leading with a round to go; if you would have told me it was going to be a six-way playoff, I would have laughed at you.  It is hard to pick.  I would imagine so, unless conditions go crazy.  I mean, 23 under last year would be something pretty similar again this year, I would imagine, 6-under a day. 
  

Q.  You were leading halfway here a couple of years ago?
 
GREG CHALMERS:   First year here, I was one or two shots behind Greg Kraft.  I was in the last group on Saturday. 
  

Q.  Are you a better player now than you were then?
 
GREG CHALMERS:   I am a little more mature, more patient, and I have a lot more belief in myself.  I guess at that time a good performance was the be all and end all where-- and this is partly comes into line with patience these days -- not these days, but at the moment, I feel like, if I do -- if it does not happen tomorrow, it will happen the next day.  It is a little more care free than what I was at that point.  I put a lot more pressure on myself when I first got out here a couple of years ago. 
  

Q.  Do you feel like your time has nearly arrived now?
 
GREG CHALMERS:   I feel -- I feel like -- for awhile, now, every week, I think a lot of guys tee it up, thinking this will be their week.  I probably teed it up 28 times last year thinking it would be my week after the previous year.  At the end of last year, in the middle of last year and leading towards the end of now, I feel better about it all the time.  Who knows, it could happen this week, might not. Might never happen.  I feel better about it all the time.  Just wish I had more control over it. 
  

Q.  Is there a bond between you and the other five lefties on the Tour this year?  Do you guys compare notes; look at each other's clubs?
 
GREG CHALMERS:   Look at clubs for sure, yes.  Not really compare notes.  I have only been drawn with them once, I think I got drawn with Flesch this year.  I do not see -- Mike every now and then.  It is hard to --there is not enough of us to sort of, you know, compare too much, I guess.  I try and watch what they are doing, motivated by their performances.  I am certainly motivated by what Mike has done and what Steve is doing.  Phil has always been great, so I have always been looking up to that. Definitely helps when they are performing well. 
  

Q.  On other tours you are on (inaudible) probably fewer lefties...
 
GREG CHALMERS:   Yes.  Australia, Asia, Europe, there's fewer lefties.  I don't know, you can make a big deal about it or not. It feels normal to me so, I don't know. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT