BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2016
Greg Chalmers
Gary Woodland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Greg, great round today.  Birdied five of your last six holes.  Obviously right in the driver's position, right where you want to be.  
GREG CHALMERS: No question.  I had a rough start.  I think the key to my round today was that stretch through 2, 3 and 4 where I got up-and-down on 2 and 3 for pars after bogeying my first hole and then birdied 4 and then chipped in on 5 as well for birdie and that kind of settled me down, I got rhythm moving back in the right direction.  I played some really nice golf after that, really nice golf on the back nine.  Picked up some birdies.   
 Q.  At the risk of asking an obvious question, how important is it to kind of just stay, not get ahead of yourself, and play your game and do what you know how to do best?  
GREG CHALMERS: It's a necessity at this level, if you want to be successful.  There's a long way to go, and there's plenty of players capable of shooting a lot of points out here.  This golf course can give you a lot of points, if you drive it well, get it into play, start making a few putts.  I'll get out there tomorrow and get that first tee shot in play and get after it.   
 Q.  Birdied all the par 5s today.  Obviously that's a big part of your game with your length and so forth.  Just a few comments about the round, six birdies and I think just the one bogey?  
GARY WOODLAND: I played beautifully all day.  I didn't get as much out of it as I would like to.  Hit a lot of good shots, a lot of good putts.  I would like to see a couple more go in.  But I'm excited about the way I'm playing, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  How much is the fact that you won here before serving as a motivation?  
GARY WOODLAND: Yeah, a lot.  Obviously you'd like to do it again.  I had a pretty comfortable lead the last time I was here.  Now I'm coming from behind.  But I'm playing good golf, a golf course I really enjoy.  Sets up great for me.  I look forward to tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT