KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
June 1, 2000
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GREG CHALMERS: First time I think I've shot a low round on the first day in a long
time. That was really the goal, to get a good start for the tournament. I keep shooting
par, 1-under, 1-over the first day. I'm just hoping to keep it going if I can. 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about the Australians? Are you happy with the number of
Australians and maybe explain what it was like to learn the game in Australia?

GREG CHALMERS: Sure. I'm thrilled there's a lot of Australians. The more the merrier.
When you come from Australia, because you're so far away from everywhere, very quickly you
learn that you're going to have to travel to play golf. And most people want to come to
the best place and that's the U.S. pGA TOUR. That's where it is. That's where you get a
lot of guys. A lot of good programs, a lot of good young players coming through. I think
the next few years we should see a lot more, hopefully. 

Q. The courses down in Australia, are they similar to here? 

GREG CHALMERS: Some are. It takes a while. I'm still adjusting to a lot of the shots
here in some ways. Takes a while to get used to the rough over here. It's a lot thicker
than what we have at home. And the courses are a lot firmer, a lot bouncier, you have to
run in shots here and there. But usually, the grass, especially down in Florida we don't
have that much grass around. So adjusting to things like that take a while, yeah.

Q. You seemed to have adjusted pretty well today.

GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, I mean, I enjoy this golf course. I like the place a lot. 

Q. What strengths does it play to your game? What part of your game plays into this
course? 

GREG CHALMERS: That's a tough question. I don't know. I don't really know what my
strengths are. I'd say normally if I'm putting well, the rest of my game flows from there.
Today, that's mainly where my score came from. I putted well early and I hit good shots
after that. Just gave me more confidence. I don't know if the golf course, you know, suits
any particular player. Personally, I feel comfortable here. I like the place. So I guess
it's a product more of being more comfortable on the TOUR because I've been here before,
and last year it was all new and I'm coming back to places that I'm more familiar with,
so, that's nice. I started on 10. I hit a 9-iron to about 20 feet and holed that. Then I
chipped it down on the par 5. Hit it back over the par 5 with a 3-wood and chipped it down
to two feet and holed that. I birdied 18. Hit a 7-iron to about six feet and holed that.
And then I had a bunch of pars in a row, and then I birdied the first par 5 -- I the par
5, 6, I pitched it. And hit a 6-iron on the next hole and hit a nice shot in to about five
feet and holed that. And then the last, I hit a wedge to about two feet. 

Q. Do they call you "snake" because of long putts or something more
interesting? 

GREG CHALMERS: No. I wish it was something --

Q. Exotic? 

GREG CHALMERS: Not what you imagine, put it that way. No, it's my last name, Snake
Chalmers.

Q. That's original. That's not American kind of humor. That seems Australian?

GREG CHALMERS: No. Definitely Australian humor.

Q. Is there anything about this course that sets up well for you, being a lefty, do you
play mostly a fade or a draw? 

GREG CHALMERS: I'm more comfortable drawing the ball, I would say. Trouble on the right
is probably easier for me to handle because I can start of start on the fat side of the
fairway and move it towards it. But that's where I feel most comfortable. I don't know, I
mean, the way these play here, it's just a feel for the area. You can just hit any shot
you like most of the time. It's just where you feel comfortable.

Q. Do you still write a column about your experiences?

GREG CHALMERS: No. I got the axe, actually, at the end of the year. I think the paper
was broke; so, I can't have been too good at it. I don't do that anymore. That was last
year, just an experience, writing about different players and places and stuff.

Q. Did you actually enjoy that?

GREG CHALMERS: I did, actually. I did one every two or three months and, I don't know
how much -- I just enjoyed the whole year. I met a lot of people and played with some
great players, and it was just nice. You go ahead and you watch all of these events back
at home in Australia on TV, there's a certain aura when you're out there playing. It was
worth putting it down on paper.

Q. Are you getting over a little bit of that awe, maybe that you're one of them, or
will that take longer? 

GREG CHALMERS: I'm getting more comfortable out here each week I play. It's great. I
really enjoy it. 

Q. Did you ever start playing right-handed? 

GREG CHALMERS: No, but I am right-handed. 

Q. What got you going left? Isn't Bob Charles the same way?

GREG CHALMERS: We've got a few -- some of the sportsman at home are the same way. I
don't know, that's just the way it was, two-handed. Like to throw a baseball, throw it
right-handed and bat left-handed. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT