BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2016
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Second day in a row, great round.  Talk about what it was like keeping it going out there?  
GREG CHALMERS: I tried to remain patient.  I didn't do a lot on the front nine, my front nine, and I only turned one point, a bogey and a birdie.   
 Q.  Second day in a row with a great round.  Talk about how it was like keeping it going out there.  
GREG CHALMERS: Yeah, I just tried to remain patient.  I didn't do a lot on the front nine, my front nine.  And I only turned with one point, a bogey and a birdie.  But I birdied nine and gave it straight back again and bogeyed 10.   
I played okay.  It wasn't as good as yesterday, ball-striking-wise, but then I ran a lot of really nice putts, an 18-footer for birdie on 11, birdied from about ten feet on both 13 and 14.  And five or six feet at 6 and picked up one more at the last.   
So I stayed out of trouble on the holes I needed to and picked up some really good birdies where I needed to on the --   
 Q.  Slow start, and able to turn it around, how were you able to do that?  
GREG CHALMERS: Just stay patient and tenacity is important.  You just gotta -- there's no point panicking.  Just keep -- things are going to come and I've been rolling the ball nicely on the greens.  The greens are in great shape and that helps me a lot.   
 Q.  How nice was that up-and-down at the end to close, looked like a delicate little chip?  
GREG CHALMERS: I was surprised how much I got it to spin.  I thought it would be a struggle to keep it short of the hole, thought I was going to hit it past the hole.  But I managed to make a putt.  It's not easy, but it's an easy (indiscernible) for me, left to right, and hit it out there and it broke in.  I was pleased to finish like that.   
 Q.  Thoughts on heading into the weekend.  
GREG CHALMERS: I don't know.  I don't know if I'll be leading or anything like that.  I'll certainly be up there around there somewhere.  I'm sure someone this afternoon might post a number and get it going a little lower.  But the course is drying out.  Pins were tougher today.  So I'm looking for little bit of breeze and the drying out could be an interesting weekend for scoring.  But there's birdies out there if you can judge your distances and get everything right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT