BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2016
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round today.
GREG CHALMERS: I had an average start, starting on the tenth hole.  I had a long wedge into the first and dunked it into the bunker had to make 20 feet for par.  Bogeyed the par 3 next.  Then I went birdie and chipped in for eagle on 13, and so that kind of got me going and I started to see some good things happen, picked up a couple of birdies on that 9.  And then made some nice birdies coming into the stretch there.
Birdied 17.  And what was the other one?  I think it was the one down the hill which is a tough birdie, the fifth hole.  Really pleased with how I played.  Bounced back every time.  Made a bogey, made a couple of bogeys, bounced back real quick and got going the right direction.  This format is about making a lot of birdies and eagles.
Q. Do you forget about this, try to pick up the game tomorrow?
GREG CHALMERS: Different conditions tomorrow morning and just start afresh and get out there, see if we can't do it again.  The scores are very, very -- if you are driving the ball nice into play, you can get things going.  And I did that today.  So we'll get cracking at it early tomorrow, see if we can do something too.
Q. Have you seen the weather so good for a complete day here?
GREG CHALMERS: No, normally you guys get like a nice little 15-mile-an-hour breeze at some point.  This didn't do a lot today.  I thought we were going to get some light breezes up around 14, 12.  Really wasn't a factor.  And when it's windy here, it's tricky and the greens are getting firmer.  I think it will get trickier as the week goes on if there's no water put on it.  Looking forward to that.  Start slowing down a bit.
Q. Have you played much in altitude like this?  Do you have to shift your game around much?
GREG CHALMERS: Yes, a lot of mathematics going around there.  Luckily I was pretty good at that at school.  When you've got all these altitude -- not just the actual altitude but all the level changes you have out here going down 17 and things like that.  Few other holes like that.
There's a little bit of guesswork and educated guesswork, and you've got to get a little bit lucky sometimes and did that today.
Q. How about just the actual getting around the course, the breathing and do you have to be kind of mindful of how?
GREG CHALMERS: I'm a physical specimen that doesn't bother me at all.  No, 42, yeah, you gotta just take your time getting up the hill.  It could be worse.  I could be carrying a 40-pound golf bag.
Q. The streak, you've come close a couple of times to ending that long drought without winning.  Could maybe this year?
GREG CHALMERS: No courses are alike.  But yeah, look, I'm one of those players -- I think I've played, I don't know how many hundred events, and haven't won.  It's getting up there.  Certainly not -- I don't know if I'm leading that stat but I'm pretty close to it.  So if I got a chance down at the end, that would be great.  But right now here on Thursday, no, it doesn't resonate a whole lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT