BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2014
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Want to know about that round.   It was a good one.   Get some comments.   
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, everything was just‑‑ I birdied the second, the par 5.   I hit a nice shot, shot it out of the bunker about four feet.   Not really much happening after that.   I holed a 60‑footer on 16, the par 3, and then proceeded to birdie the next, I think, five in a row, total.   So four after that.   
So it really got‑‑ it really got kind of exciting.   I knew where things were going at that point.   I hit a couple of loose shots.   I didn't get much sleep last night.   I was up at about 2:00a.m., a few things on my mind at the moment.   I was pleased to just get into the house, pleased with the day.  
   
 Q.   No foreign‑born player has ever won this tournament.   I'm curious if there's anything coincidental about that?   Or is there somehow the course sets up that it favors an American?   
GREG CHALMERS:   I don't know that it favors‑‑ I'll say this:   We don't have anything altitude like this in Australia.   We never play anything like this.   We're always at sea level.   
It's a massive adjustment for most of us, when you only seen it once a year and you haven't seen it before in your lifetime up until coming to America, yeah, it makes it a little trickier.   It's a little crazy, some of the numbers we have and the clubs that match up.   But foreign‑born, I don't know, it will happen eventually.   There's always someone good enough to get it done.  
   
 Q.   Is there more of a foreign presence on the TOUR?   A couple guys I was speaking with earlier said there is because the purses in Europe and the tournaments in Europe are kind of decreasing, not growing like it is in America?  
GREG CHALMERS:   I think it's a natural thing.   Everyone wants to play in America.   Yes, the purses are bigger.   The lifestyle for me, I've played in Europe and Asia, the lifestyle is easier.  
And so it's like working for the biggest company in the world.   You always want to get someone that's fantastic versus someone that's just okay.   So it really is a fantastic TOUR, and that's why guys, more than just for financial reasons, want to play it.  
   
 Q.   You have things like the Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup, but is there a friendly rivalry between foreign‑born guys and American‑born guys just on the regular TOUR?  
GREG CHALMERS:   No, I wouldn't say so.   More rivalries between just mates and friends.   There's no‑‑ everyone's just so busy trying to do their own thing.   It's a pretty selfish deal sometimes.   They're not really concerned about what's going on.   
So, no, there's not a real‑‑ more amongst actually Australians and South Africans, we have a bigger rivalry.   Australians and English have a bit of banter.   But there's no sort of tickling going on in the locker room.  
   
 Q.   Pretty sure you played in the first one of these?  
GREG CHALMERS:   Yes, correct.  
   
 Q.   Curious how the tournament field has changed.   How much deeper and better is it now as opposed to ‑‑  
GREG CHALMERS:   It's a lot stronger, because what's happening now is‑‑ I read a stat the other day.   I think there were something like 16 or 17 major champions playing over at Akron.   There's about 15 playing here.   
So you are getting guys that are trying to, young guys trying to forge their way into a fantastic finish to turn their career or slash year around.   But you've got some older, experienced guys who have been playing a long time who could probably do with a boost to their career right now.   So it's a lot deeper field and it's a lot stronger.  
   
 Q.   How would you compare this round to others you've played here?   Where does it rank?  
GREG CHALMERS:   I played a couple of nice rounds here.   But this is probably the best one I've played.   If I would have birdied the last hole that would have been the absolute best.   I think 8‑under.   
But I hit some really nice shots there through that middle stretch, hit a lot of good iron shots, and the greens were a lot different this morning just from how the ball was rolling a lot smoother.   That was a big difference compared to playing yesterday afternoon.   
I was really impressed with Nick Watney's round yesterday.   He must have really holed the ball nicely.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT