RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Greg Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you take us through your round a little bit?
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, I played really nicely on the front nine.   It was cold here this morning.   We hit off the 10th hole and it was playing pretty long, and I think I made a couple of nice 20 or 30‑footers after hitting 3‑iron in.   I hit a 3‑iron into 15 and a 6‑iron into 16.   There were some long putts and long shots required this morning, but if you drove it in play, you had a chance.

Q.   You've always been a very consistent player, especially tee to green.   In the situation that you're in being right on the bubble of the FedExCup, I'm assuming that this tournament is one of those tournaments that you would feel very comfortable that it suits your game down to the ground?
GREG CHALMERS:   Yeah, I was thrilled before we got the rain yesterday to be honest, because I really love hard and bouncy.   I don't think hit it as long as some of the longer hitters, and I feel it's a real advantage for me, and I grew up playing on hard and bouncy courses.   I was really excited about the thought process that it takes to play that kind of golf. 
But it's firming up really quickly.   It was really surprising how dry it was out there today.   But this golf course doesn't really suit anybody.   It just suits somebody who drives it well and hits good iron shots because these greens are really hard to get to some of these pins when they tuck them away.   I think it's going to be a great week.

Q.   Being No.124 in the FedExCup, talk to us a little bit about the role that experience plays. 
GREG CHALMERS:   Look, I think the only thing that‑‑ well, the major thing that experience helps you with, you know that the world doesn't end even if you're not successful.   I've been through it before, failed.   I've been through it before and succeeded.   Either way, when I get home in a couple of weeks' time, I've got a wife and kids and they're still going to give me a hug.   You put in your best effort and hopefully it works out for you, but last time I checked, the sun will rise on Monday morning regardless of what happens. 

Q.   I know it started off quickly with some nice putts that you made early on. 
GREG CHALMERS:   Well, yeah, I get out of the box on 10 there and I hit a 7‑iron into about six feet and made it, and I got a great up‑and‑down on 11, and then I think I holed‑‑ on 15 I think I holed it from about 30 feet after hitting 3‑iron in there, and then I holed out the same length again on the next hole, on 16, from about 30 feet.   That kind of keeps you in good spirits going into my back nine but the front nine.   I'll tell you, I didn't think it was that easy this morning.   I thought it was playing quite long.   I really would have liked it to be drier like we had the first couple days, so hopefully tomorrow morning we can get out there and see some dry conditions and get the ball moving on the ground a little bit, get a little extra distance out of it.

Q.   I know you're 124 on the list.   Are you able to put that aside when you tee it up week to week now?
GREG CHALMERS:   I think the time away from the golf course is probably harder than the time on the golf course, but I'm aware of it.   I'm not a fool.   I understand that it's the situation I'm in.   There's only so much I can sort of do really, isn't there.   I'm trying to do things like I did today, which was really get wrapped up in the little nuances of what I wanted to do to achieve a good shot, and I did a good job with that today. 
To come out tomorrow and see if I can do the same again and shoot another score in the 60s, that would be great.

Q.   You're in the land of the left‑hander up here.   How do you feel with all the lefty support coming your way here?
GREG CHALMERS:   Yeah, you're right, you guys have a vast percentage of left‑handers with your hockey background up here, and I do get a lot more support than I do in other parts of the States.   A lot of people follow you just because of being left‑handed, and they have one of the better left‑handers in the world that represents golf in this country for them pretty much for a long time.   Yeah, it's kind of cool because there's not many other places in the world where being left‑handed gets a run. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT