KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 5, 2008
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You are in contention. You are currently in second place. How exciting for you. You just had your son last June and you are in conjunction for a major. Can you talk about how it felt to play that way. 
 HEE-WON HAN: I am happy to be back on the tour, pretty excited, hopefully, tomorrow I will play well, get in good position tomorrow. 

 Q. Absolutely. Let's go over your scorecard very fast. The birdie on the second hole?
 HEE-WON HAN: Hit a 3-wood. That's like just front of the green, and the pin is way back there, like I just putt it there, and that was like five feet and I made putt.

 Q. Three wood to five feet?
 HEE-WON HAN: Outside edge -- putt and then five feet, I just made it.

 Q. Putt from the fringe?
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah.

 Q. Okay. How about the birdie on 10?
 HEE-WON HAN: I just hit a pitching wedge, that was, like, six feet.

 Q. How far out was that shot?
 HEE-WON HAN: Hit pitching wedge, like, 120.

 Q. 120?
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, downwind.

 Q. The birdie on 10?
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, that's 10.

 Q. The birdie on 11?
 HEE-WON HAN: Hit 7-wood, that was 20 feet, two putts.

 Q. And the bogey on 14?
 HEE-WON HAN: I just hit 7-iron, that was left bunker, and then out, it was, like 8, 9 feet, I missed it.

 Q. All right. Questions for Hee-wan?
 Good chance you will be playing with Lorena in the final group tomorrow. Have you ever played with her in any round?
 HEE-WON HAN: With her, a long time ago. I can't remember. Because I am not playing last year. That means I am not playing with Lorena last year. I can't remember. But I play with her before.

 Q. Do you look forward to the challenge, and what do you think is the challenge of playing with her?
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah. She was so good, like this woman, like, a couple years. That's why I just try and do my best. 

 Q. This is a major championship, you have a chance to win a major. Do you think you will have any different feeling tomorrow or any extra nerves?
 HEE-WON HAN: It is a major championship, but this feels like -- because every week, that's why, it's just a major, nothing different. It feels pretty comfortable, yes.

 Q. You played with Annika today. She was playing --
 HEE-WON HAN: She was so sick out there, but first couple holes she looked more like -- kind of a little sick, but she was getting better, and then she was -- I mean, mentally, she just keep playing, gets better, makes a couple birdies, yeah, yeah.

 Q. What worked well for you this week, driving, putting?
 HEE-WON HAN: I just keep thinking hit the fairways, and then hit the greens, because, I mean, I just played yesterday morning and then this afternoon, it's way different, like, greens getting hard, that's why hit right distance and go kind of that way. 

 Q. Do you relish or look forward to the idea of playing with Lorena in the final group on Sunday? Obviously, she has a big crowd feeling, she is clearly number 1. It seems like that would be a great way to break through in a major if you are able to do it. 
 HEE-WON HAN: Today it's pretty crowded with Annika. That's why, that's fine.

 Q. Just to follow up on that. Was this the biggest crowd you have ever played, playing with Annika? 
 HEE-WON HAN: No, I just played before last week Annika, yeah.

 Q. Sorry. I didn't --
 HEE-WON HAN: Last year, last November.

 Q. And the crowd, was that as big as it was today?
 HEE-WON HAN: Not like this, but it's always a big crowd when you are playing with Annika.

 Q. And maybe the answer to this is obvious, but I want to ask you, do you think you can beat Lorena tomorrow?
 HEE-WON HAN: Yes. Why not? 

 Q. Thank you very much. Good luck tomorrow. Okay?







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT