LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 28, 2006
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 HEE-WON HAN:  I was pretty nervous out there.  Meena played with me a couple of times, and she's pretty good.  6 -- under, she's a pretty good player.  I was just thinking keep it in the fairways and greens.   
 Like especially the greens were pretty tough today.  Over the green would have been bad.  That's why I put it on there.  Yeah, I got a little lucky on 18 and 8.  I hit the trees.  They both went in the fair way.   
  
 HEE-WON HAN:  I really wanted to win because three times, it feels like it was pretty good play, but I really wanted to win something, to win a tournament.   
  
 HEE-WON HAN:  Okay.  Birdie on 5.  I hit 4-iron.   
 6, 2-putt.   
 And 7, I hit 6, 3, 6.   
 And 8 I just told you I went over the green.  And I chipped and then bogey.   
 And 9 I hit 7 over the green and chipping and a 7-foot putt.  I missed that.   
 And 12 I hit gap wedge.   
 And 14 I hit sand wedge.   
 And 17 I hit -- 25 foot.   
 18 I hit 8 iron.   
  
 HEE-WON HAN:  18, I hit 9 in the bunker.  Then I hit pitching wedge, 18 feet.  Two putt, par.   
 And third hole I hit 8-iron, two putt.   
 And another 8 -- I hit 9-iron.  16 feet, two putt.   
  
  Q.  Did the fact that you were coming off of back to back second place finishes, did that add to the nervousness that you had when the play-off began?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  It's always nerves out there.  This is my fifth win, but always nerves.   
  Q.  Did you have to kind of keep those thoughts out of your mind though when you began?  Did that creep into your head at all?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  I can't do it this way.  I just kept it positive.   
  Q.  Are you pretty close to Meena off the course?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Yes.   
  Q.  Do you practice together?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Right, yes.   
  Q.  What was it like going head to head for four holes with her today?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  I think both players were tired.  Meena is a pretty great player.  I was thinking I really needed to score birdies to win.  She missed the green at the 8th hole.   
  Q.  She says you're kind of her big sister, you take each other under your wing or something.  Is that true?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Yeah.  We play a lot like practice rounds.  Yeah, very close.   
  Q.  Talk about the sense of relief when you finally knew you had it.  After two straight seconds that you finally got the win.  Talk about the sense of relief of getting that win after to straight runner ups.   
 HEE-WON HAN:  When I?   
  Q.  After you won in the play-off, was there a sense of relief?   
  
 HEE-WON HAN:  That's why I was thinking I just really want to win this tournament.  Like three times in second place, I don't like that.  That's why.   
  Q.  You had a great round here last year, a 62.  So obviously this is a course that kind of plays well for you.  Do you feel comfortable here?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Yeah, because that's my best score on tour.  Yeah.   
  Q.  Did you have a good feeling to start the day even though you were --   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Because I just started the last two weeks to play pretty good.  It felt pretty good.  My putts and my coach just called me last night and he was watching my putter on the Golf Channel, like Saturday play, and he just says your ball is forward.  So just keep thinking of that.  That helps a lot.   
  Q.  Meena didn't want to talk about the U.S. Open application.  Do you know anything about that?  She didn't send it in on time?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Yes.  They told me if she won this tournament, she would get into it.   
  Q.  You didn't know that?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  I know that, but I really needed the win.   
  Q.  Looking at the success that you had today and Meena, the defending champ, is there a sense of pride in that and how well the Korean players are doing?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  You know what, there's lots of good Korean players in Korea that want to play here.  They practice hard and are working hard.  That's why they all play good, I think.   
  Q.  Did you say anything to Meena after the play-off?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Nothing.   
  Q.  Just curious.  This is a really big national event to win an event like this back home?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Maybe yes.   
  Q.  Do you go often?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  In the wintertime.   
  Q.  It's been a while that you've played in Corning, because of the success you had last year, was it a pretty easy decision to come back here?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Yes.  I hit like 10-under my gross score, and my husband and my dad, they said you had 20/20.  And I said yes.   
  Q.  Do you envision coming here many many years in the future?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Yeah.   
  Q.  You've won in play-offs before, right?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Yes.   
  Q.  That gives you an advantage going into another one today?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Mm-hmm.  Yep.  I got an 8, 9-hole bogey today.  If I'm not, no play-off.  But who knows.  It happens a lot.   
  Q.  Was this the longest play-off that you've ever been in?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  Yes.  Yes, four holes.   
  Q.  After you won the play-off, before the play-off, did you start to get tired?   
 HEE-WON HAN:  I was tired, but I was pretty happy.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT