WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 20, 2004
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Thanks for coming in.  You're one shot back.  You won this tournament last year, so I imagine it's a pretty good feeling.  Maybe you could just tell us about your day and then we can take some questions from there.  What was working for you today?
HEE WON HAN:  I was hitting fairways and hitting greens because obviously it's wet.  It was a tough day today, but pretty good.
Q.   How long before the horn sounded did you finish?
HEE WON HAN:  We finished like one minute, yeah.
Q.   That's what you deserve as defending champion, to finish before they blow the horn.
HEE WON HAN:  Thank you.
Q.   What was it like playing in it?  Is it hard to not get distracted by the water dripping off your hat or whatever?
HEE WON HAN:  Not really, but it's different from yesterday to today.  It's too wet, way different.  Really a little bit longer today.
Q.   The advantage would be obviously you can throw shots directly at the pin, but your drives, I assume your drives don't get any roll at all or maybe even back up and plug?  Did you have some bad lies, and how difficult was it to drive the ball?
HEE WON HAN:  Not really.
Q.   Was it easier at all from the standpoint that you could fire at the pin without worrying about your ball going over the green?
HEE WON HAN:  No, because it's too wet.  I mean, like driver shots, it just stops right there, yeah.  The greens are pretty good.
Q.   Do you like your position right now?
HEE WON HAN:  Yes.
Q.   I asked you the same question yesterday and you're close to the lead again.  What is it about this course that you play well here two years in a row, or three years?
HEE WON HAN:  When I come here, my shots is pretty good, my putting is pretty good.  That's why I just like this.
Q.   You're not thinking a lot about it, you just
HEE WON HAN:  I just keep hitting the fairway, hit the green, yeah.  That's all.
Q.   Let's go through the score card.  Birdie on 1, what did you hit in and how far was the putt?
HEE WON HAN:  We hit 9 iron to four feet.
Q.   Then 2, the bogey?
HEE WON HAN:  Three putt.  It was really fast downhill.
Q.   How far was the first putt?
HEE WON HAN:  Probably about 20 feet left of the hole, really fast downhill.  It just kept going past the hole, and you've got to be right of it.  It was tucked in that right corner.
Q.   Birdie on 10?
HEE WON HAN:  5 iron from 150 yards to about ten feet.
Q.   Birdie on 18?
HEE WON HAN:  6 iron to about two feet, three feet.  That was a great shot.
Q.   Did you miss any fairways or not?
HEE WON HAN:  Not really.
Q.   You said that outside it's too wet and you didn't want to be hitting out of it?
HEE WON HAN:  That's right     (caddie speaking and inaudible.)
Q.   Suzanne just came in a few minutes ago and said she's glad she's finished because now she gets to sleep in in the morning.  Are you a big fan of sleeping in, also?
HEE WON HAN:  No, not really.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT