WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 10, 2003
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Hee Won, thanks for joining us, and congratulations.

HEE WON HAN: Thank you.

MODERATOR:  That was some great golf out there.  You kept everybody a little anxious.  Let's go ahead and go over your score card, and then we'll take some questions. 

(Score card done.)

MODERATOR:  Questions?


Q.  How difficult was the 25 footer, the winning putt?  Was there much break to it?

HEE WON HAN: Not much break, pretty straight putt.


Q.  How excited are you to win?

TRANSLATOR: Indescribable feeling, she said.  Happy.


Q.  The best part of your game today, what did you do best?

HEE WON HAN: This whole three days, I hit pretty straight and irons were pretty good and my putting pretty good.  It's all good, actually.


Q.  At the start of this season, did you tell yourself you were going to win all three tournaments you finished 2nd in last year?

HEE WON HAN: Not really, but I have three 2nd places last year, but it's good playing, and I like the course, each course.  It was pretty good.  I had good play last year and then good play this year.


Q.  Can you tell us when you 3 putted at 17 and fell into the tie, were you disappointed?  What were you thinking at that point as you came to 18 knowing that you had lost the lead that you had?  You led by as many as 3 shots I think.

HEE WON HAN: She has one more hole to play, which is 18.  I thought Wendy made birdie the last hole, because    and then I had to make birdie the same as 18, but I just     coming into the 18 green, I saw the board, and Wendy just finished 17 under.  I just tried to make my putt.


Q.  How you felt when your final putt went in, how you felt?

HEE WON HAN: You mean the 17 putt?


Q.  The last putt.

HEE WON HAN: You know, what I just thought it was in.  I just hit that one in.


Q.  Did you look at the board at all the rest of the day?  Did you see Wendy?

HEE WON HAN: Yeah.


Q.  What did you think when you saw that?

HEE WON HAN: Wendy played good, but I played good today, and then I - Wendy made bogey that hole, right?  So the lead was by 3 strokes.  So at this time, she didn't worry that much about her win.


Q.  Take us back to the second playoff hole, number 10, you hit a 9-iron club.   

HEE WON HAN: 8 iron.


Q.  You hit your 8 iron close, and Wendy is over the green, and then what happens then?

HEE WON HAN: I thought I would make the putt and win.


Q.  You said you thought you would make the putt and win.  That was reasonable.  She was 30 feet away.  And did you think your putt was a lot longer all of a sudden?

HEE WON HAN: No.


Q.  Se Ri was the first Korean to really make a name for herself.  After that, Mi Hyun has really had some good years.  This seems to be your year, especially in the last month.  Is that the feeling you're getting; that you're getting to that point where Se Ri and Mi Hyun are?

TRANSLATOR: She didn't really think about it.  There is more good players.  I just play my golf and make more wins.


Q.  Having them ahead of you though, is that what you're aiming for; to be as good as them or better?

TRANSLATOR: She just wants to focus on her game and play her own game.  Not in terms of Sae Ri and Mi Hyun, she just wants to be herself.


Q.  Having won a close race in Las Vegas, did that help you today?  Were you less nervous?  Were you more confident because you had kind of been through this and been successful?

MODERATOR:  Talking about New York where she won.


Q.  That's what I mean, I'm sorry.

HEE WON HAN: That win makes more confidence and then more comfortable place.


Q.  Were you as nervous today as you were in New York?

HEE WON HAN: I was more nervous in New York.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

TRANSLATOR: She didn't really think about that issue, and she thinks most Korean players play well, so it's kind of - those issues are - may come from jealousy, but yet she didn't really think about those issues, you know.  She just tried to play her game and to win the tournament.


Q.  When I asked Juli Inkster about her today, I think you played with her at Evian, the first thing she said is she's really a great putter.  Has that been the biggest key to your play the last week or so, your putting?

HEE WON HAN: In the New York tournament, I won the tournament in getting more better at my putting actually, yeah, in four weeks, yeah.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

HEE WON HAN: The chalk line, I just - every morning I just concentrate on that one.  That's what helped me.  Drawing the chalk line from where she's standing to the hole, 5 feet or 7 feet, that really helped her.


Q.  How did you start using that tool?  Did you get it from another player?

HEE WON HAN: My coach says - he says that would help me, and I started this year.


Q.  Your dad was out there watching you today.  Are you more comfortable having him out there watching you, or do you even know he's out there?

HEE WON HAN: It doesn't really matter.


Q.  2nd place last year, Champion this year.  Feel good?

HEE WON HAN: Yeah, it's good.

MODERATOR:  Any more questions for Hee Won?

Thank you.

HEE WON HAN: Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT