WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 9, 2003
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Thanks for joining us.  That was a great round out there, 65.  We'll go ahead and go over your score card first, and then we'll take some questions, okay?

HEE-WON HAN: Okay.

(Score card done.)

MODERATOR:  We'll take some questions. 


Q.  How do you rate your chances tomorrow?  You're tied for the lead.  How are you playing?  How do you feel?

HEE-WON HAN: Pretty good.  I had a good play last year too here, and then I will just enjoy my play tomorrow.


Q.  Last year, you were second here.  You were second I think three times last year, and you finally got that win this year that you were looking for.  What has that done for you maybe mentally to have that win, knowing you can win out here now, going into the final round tomorrow?

HEE-WON HAN: Pretty comfortable actually.


Q.  In case you're paired with her, do you know Candie Kung?

HEE-WON HAN: Yeah.


Q.  Have you played together?

HEE-WON HAN: Yeah.


Q.  Are you friends, or would you play a practice round together?

HEE-WON HAN: Not really, but we know each other pretty good.


Q.  A lot of your birdies weren't very long, inside 10 feet.  Were you hitting the ball closer today, or were you just making the putts today that you didn't make yesterday?

HEE-WON HAN: I think both was pretty good.  My putting was pretty good, and my irons were pretty good today. 


Q.  Late in the day -- it didn't seem for most of the round that a lot of the players were able to make a lot of birdies and get close to Candie, but in the last hour or two, it seems like everybody is birdieing every hole.  What happened out there?

HEE-WON HAN: I don't know.  I don't know.  Everyone is playing good right now.


Q.  Are you the kind of person who is nervous going into the final round or has difficulty sleeping or anything like that?

HEE-WON HAN: No.


Q.  Last year, when you finished second here, the course was completely different, hard as a rock, balls running a lot.  This week everything's sticking where you hit it.  I guess it's safe to say you can play in either conditions.  Is either year easier for you?  Is this year easier to play this course than last year or not?

HEE-WON HAN: I think last year is more farther actually.  This year, the greens stopped pretty good.  This year is better, yeah.

MODERATOR:  You guys all set? Thank you.

HEE-WON HAN: Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT