SYBASE BIG APPLE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY LINCOLN MERCURY
July 18, 2003
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Welcome Hee-Won Han, 8 under, you have a two-shot lead.  Do you want to talk about how the round went today, how it felt.
HEE-WON HAN: No bogeys today, 5 birdies.  Pretty good.  The weather is a little cooler.
MODERATOR:  Questions?  Let's go over your score card. 
(Score card done.)

Q.  Hee-Won Han, any big difference between today and yesterday?  You say the weather was a little cooler.  Were the greens easier to putt, a little softer to hit into as opposed to yesterday?
HEE-WON HAN: The greens were a little softer and played good today.

Q.  You talked a little bit about it outside, but last year, coming in the way it happened, do you feel there is a little bit of business to finish this year the way  -- what happened last year?
HEE-WON HAN: Last year I missed that birdie putt.  It's a good position right now, and we have two more days.  I want to win. 

Q.  How long did it take you to get over it last year in a tough situation like that you lose in the playoff and then when you came back this year?  Is it something you think about a lot or just when we bring it up that you think about it?
HEE-WON HAN: The way she played last year and lost in the playoffs, she thought it's going to happen.  She could expect it's going to happen because it was a game of win or lose.  She thought, yeah, I can lose or win sometimes.  So let it just go.  When she come to this tournament again this year, she didn't think much about last year's event.  She just focused on this year's event and try to keep doing what she has been doing each this year. 

Q.  Are you all close and friendly, but at the same time very competitive, you want to beat the other players from Korea?
HEE-WON HAN: Not really.  I mean, more friendly.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
HEE-WON HAN: Not really.

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about how the year has gone for you coming off a pretty successful year last year, it seems  -- talk about the year for you so far.
HEE-WON HAN: I think there is a couple chances to win.  I made top ten so far  -- at the McDonald championship, she could have win the tournament, but she missed it so, she was kind of -- at this time, she really wants to win the tournament.  The time has come now, so it's time to win, she says. 
MODERATOR:  Any more questions?  Okay.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT