BANK OF MONTREAL CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
August 15, 2002
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURA NEAL:  Maybe just some comments on your round and how you got off to such a good start today. 

HEE-WON HAN (Through Interpreter):  She played in the bad weather the first few holes.  She was a little worried about the weather.  But it was getting dryer and better at the end.  And it helped her really well.  And her putting was great today.  So that helped her to make a low score today. 

LAURA NEAL:  Questions?

Q.  She's had some great success in the last few tournaments, she's had, I believe, two second place prior to the British Open.  How does she feel about her chances to win this week based on those past performances? 

HEE-WON HAN (Through Interpreter): She's definitely hoping to win this week.  But she has three more rounds to play so it's hard to at this time hard to tell if she can win yet.  She thinks the wind will be a big factor for winning.  If the weather holds, she would hope for that. 
 Q.  How do you explain your success,  the success of Koreans on tour and especially the Asians. 

HEE-WON HAN (Through Interpreter):  She says she can't say for other players, but she guess that because they're coming a long way to the United  States, their mindset is more they're here for the game she said.  So they try better and they do better. 

Q.  Many players today said that the score for the victory won't be that low, won't be low at all.  Because the golf course is tough.  Do you feel that way?

HEE-WON HAN (Through Interpreter):  Despite no wind today was lower score than she expected. .  But she agree with you that it's a tough course.  So if the wind blows next three days or one of the three days, it will be really tough and you would not expect a lower score than today. 
Q.  When she sees the success that Se Ri has had and other Koreans have had winning, is she putting any extra pressure on herself to win?

HEE-WON HAN (Through Interpreter):  Not at all. 

LAURA NEAL:  Any more questions?  I'll go ahead and read the card over.  Started on the back nine.  Number 12.  Birdie, 5-iron, 18 feet. 

14, birdie, sand wedge to 20 feet. 

17, bogey, 5-iron short.  Chipped to 25 feet and two putts. 

Number 3, birdie, 7-iron to 20 feet. 

Number five, birdie 7-iron to 10 feet. 

Number 7, bogey in the rough third shot short of the green.  Chipped to four feet. 

Then ended with a birdie on nine.  Just short of the green, chipped to three feet.  Made the putt.  Does that work?  All right. 
Q.  Most of her birdie putts were very long.  Does she consider herself to be a good putter from far?

HEE-WON HAN (Through Interpreter):  Yes. 

LAURA NEAL:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT