LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 22, 2009
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Hee-Won, you are a former champion here and you're right now in second place at 12-under par after a nice round. You started off pretty well with an eagle on 10. But you finished with two bogeys in your last three holes. So if you would, just talk about your day and how you feel you played.   
 HEE-WON HAN: I played really well like the last two days, and then I made eagle on 10 hole, and yesterday I almost holed it at that birdie. I laid up for left bunker and 80 yards I just hit that. It was going in the same hole.  
 Yeah, I had a great number. The weather is perfect right now, and the next two days I hope it's the same. That's why, yeah, lots of birdies out there.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?   
  
  Q. You got six birdies on eight tries of the par-5s. Do you feel like that's key to where you are right now?  
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah. I think this golf course like when you start on like No. 1 tee and then after that second hole and then fifth hole and then four, that's kind of a little short par-4. That's why those are pretty important things. Started like birdie, first five holes, like three birdies. That's a pretty good start.   
  
  Q. Do you like your position on the leaderboard in second place right now? Would you prefer to be a couple shots back or would you prefer to be in front and have people chasing you?  
 HEE-WON HAN: It doesn't matter, but lots of good players out there, and this golf course scores pretty low. I mean someone tomorrow like 10, 11-under coming out.   
  
  Q. Does your past success give you confidence going into the third round?  
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah. Last two days my putting and shots are getting better.  
  
  Q. Assuming who's likely going to be in the last group tomorrow, take us through the rest of your evening. How are you going to spend your time between now and when you tee off tomorrow?  
 HEE-WON HAN: I'm going to practice and then going to go to dinner and then go in and do the same thing.  
  
  Q. What is going to be the key if the conditions remain the same over the next two days?  
 HEE-WON HAN: I'm just thinking with my golf, I mean thinking hit fairway and then hit the green and then make a putt. Yeah, making my golf.   
  
  Q. Yesterday the morning rounds, the greens were a little less firm. They were not quite as dry with the sun. Then the afternoon it got a little harder, so you had to be careful with putts. Was that the same situation today? Were the greens hard where you had to be careful with not hitting the ball too hard?  
 HEE-WON HAN: No. I think green speed is almost like the same, but definitely fairways were a bit harder. That's why like par-5 I got iron today. But yesterday I just hit 7-wood. That's a little different with the afternoon tee time.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? Hee-Won, thank you so much.  
 HEE-WON HAN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT