LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
July 19, 2008
Hee-Won Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right, Hee-Won, thanks for coming in. An amazing round out there, new tournament record and the number 61. Let's go over your score card.  
 HEE-WON HAN: Okay: I was starting here.  
 THE MODERATOR: Birdie on 10.   
 HEE-WON HAN: I can't remember. I hit a driver and then 7-iron. That was like 10, 11 feet.   
 THE MODERATOR: 11?   
 HEE-WON HAN: 11, I hit 6-iron like 11.   
 THE MODERATOR: Then 12?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Then 9 was like one feet. Actually, I hit 5-iron. It went to like 30 feet.   
 Then 16, I can't remember. Like 7, maybe was 12 feet.   
 Then par 5, hit 3-wood and then the chipping like 28 yards. Then 3, 4 feet. No, I mean, par 5. I hit 7-wood 4 feet, yeah.   
 THE MODERATOR: All right. Just some comments on how you did out there?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Pretty good. I just hit the fairway, hit the green, and I make a putt that's it today.   
 THE MODERATOR: Okay, questions.   
  
  Q. Before today, what was maybe your lowest round you'd ever had?   
 HEE-WON HAN: 10 under.  
  
  Q. 10 under?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Was that a couple years ago?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, couple years ago at Corning Country Club, like three years ago.   
  
  Q. You've had a 61, so you don't want to be greedy. But I know on your ninth hole, number 18, you came up just short. Were there a couple of other birdies that just didn't quite drop today where you could have had maybe a 60 or a 59?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Actually I made two-putt for birdie, like 9 hole, my 18 hole.   
 And then my 16, that was pretty close, but I missed that.   
  
  Q. Obviously, you were 4 under going into today. To get into contention you had to have a low round. Did you come out thinking today to be more aggressive than usual to try to get into contention?   
 HEE-WON HAN: I don't think -- because this morning a couple rains down. Then first second hole my shot's better. Then putting feels pretty good. That's why I just keep just playing lower, and then I just keep like when I got a birdie chance, I just make that putt just stop thinking, yeah.   
  
  Q. When you birdied 10 of the first 12 holes, does 59 start creeping into the back of your mind a little bit?   
 HEE-WON HAN: I was thinking (laughing). Yeah, I was thinking that, but it's not working.   
  
  Q. When you start on the 10th hole on the third round, you're kind of back in the pack. Does that take a little pressure off in a way? Obviously, there are not a lot of people on that side of the course?  
 HEE-WON HAN: I just tried because cut was 3 under yesterday. That was pretty low, I think. That's a record. Yeah, lots of players played pretty good. I played pretty good. Everyone got a chance to play good.   
  
  Q. Were you here last year?   
 HEE-WON HAN: No, no.   
  
  Q. You had your baby, right?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. I know last year players talked about the conditions where it was kind of dry?  
 HEE-WON HAN: I just heard about them. My caddie worked for a different player. That last year was really hard fairways, more like, yeah.   
  
  Q. After playing a practice round here or whatever, did you just think the scoring conditions this week were really good? Where, hey, I can really shoot a low score here after you had played practice rounds here?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, because the green speeds more when we hit it in the greens, that's more like easier putting because it's too small, that's why. Par 5, I can't reach there, but lots of players reach that second shot, that's why.   
  
  Q. Your life has had a big change a little over a year ago?  
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Just doing something before you started a family, just your priorities have changed. Just talk about how your life has changed, and maybe how long has it been maybe a while back where you felt like you were getting back into a groove after having a baby?   
 HEE-WON HAN: It takes a little bit of time. Then I just work hard. Just like not swinging, then getting better and feeling better, yeah, that's good.   
  
  Q. Is Dale, is the baby over here?   
 HEE-WON HAN: No, he's in Korea with the grandparents.   
  
  Q. Oh, with grandparents, okay. Is it your parents?   
 HEE-WON HAN: No, my husband's parents.   
  
  Q. I see.   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yes.   
  
  Q. How often do you get a chance to get back home or to see him?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, I went there like after the tournament four weeks. Because his first birthday. I just flew back five days and came back. That's why I'm going after Portland. Because one week is too busy to go back and forth, but I'm going to go after Portland again.   
  
  Q. You mentioned yesterday the cut was 3 under, and you made the cut. Not by much, but?  
 HEE-WON HAN: Right. I just finished first day. The cut is like 1 under. That's why all players just thinking maybe 1 under or 2 under, but never like 3 under. Everyone played pretty good.   
  
  Q. Just when you get on a roll like this, sometimes I know that the last hole sometimes you feel like you can make any putt you see. I don't know, but on that last hole I know you had to wait a little bit. Because Ashley had to have a ruling.   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Was that kind of hard?   
 HEE-WON HAN: No, didn't bother. It happens a lot. No bother.   
  
  Q. No problem? Okay.   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah.   
  
  Q. From your perspective and the perspective of the players, what does it mean to have Michelle Wie on top of the leaderboard and having a chance to win the tournament? What do you think that means for women's golf?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Pretty good. I know her. She's pretty good player, but she's just little stumbling couple months, couple of years. But, yeah, she's got a good talent. She's a pretty good player.  
  
  Q. Is there a certain buzz, maybe, when -- obviously, she's been so well known for so many years, playing at such a young age.   
 HEE-WON HAN: But you know what? Right now Michelle's not like younger player. Lots of younger players are pretty good. So she's no more younger player.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you come off, it's hard to follow up after you have a 61. But tomorrow, the way the weather is and everything, it looks like the conditions will be maybe the same tomorrow. I know 61, that's asking a lot. But do you feel like you still need to have a chance tomorrow? What do you feel you would need to shoot tomorrow?   
 HEE-WON HAN: I don't know. But I just kept thinking just hit the fairway. Just keep thinking that that's more like the thinking. Because I'm just like I just win this tournament like that way. But I just keep thinking just hit the fairway, hit the green. Kind of just play myself.   
  
  Q. Just one hole at a time?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. Or whatever, yeah. You said 62 was your career low. In amateur golf or anything, do you ever remember shooting anything really low in the 60's?   
 HEE-WON HAN: No, this is my lowest, 11 under.   
  
  Q. Right. As a professional or amateur?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Professional, before, 10 under is lower, yeah. I just broke my record today.  
  
  Q. Okay. So your schedule now, maybe you told us, are you going over to France?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yes. I'm going to play Evian and British, and then we have a week off.   
  
  Q. You have a week off. So are you -- I know they said they're trying to provide some kind of a shuttle thing here tomorrow night to go to Chicago. Are you going to take advantage of that? When are you going to go over to France?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Actually, my cousin who is living in Chicago, they come down to watch my play. I'm just going with them, and they just drop off at the airport.   
  
  Q. So you'll hope to fly out by Sunday night? Tomorrow night?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, 10:00 o'clock.   
  
  Q. Okay, yeah. Your caddie, what is your caddie's name?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Shaun Clews.   
  
  Q. How is his last name spelled?   
 HEE-WON HAN: C-l-e-w-s.  
  
  Q. Has he been caddying for you for a while?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Six and a half years.  
  
  Q. Oh, wow, so you're a pretty good team?  
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. That's kind of rare these days?  
 HEE-WON HAN: Pretty good. Because he knows everything about me. He's just waiting for like when I was during the pregnancy, that's why I was just really help for things, yeah.   
  
  Q. Did he caddie for someone else while you were in your pregnancy?   
 HEE-WON HAN: Yeah, he caddied for Jee Young Lee, yeah.  
 Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT