BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2015
Madison Brengle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. PENNETTA/M. Brengle
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How was it out there?  
MADISON BRENGLE:   I mean, it felt like I didn't get that into it until a little bit later.   I was a little off‑pace.   She played quite well.   She was able to open up the court with her forehand, and I didn't serve very high percentage of first serves, it felt like, so she was able to do too much on my second serve.  
I felt like I moved pretty well, but I just made a couple too many errors here and there.   That was the difference.  
   
 Q.   Heat an issue at all at this point?  
MADISON BRENGLE:   No.   I'm from Florida.   It wasn't bad.   The sun was tough.   I couldn't really see very well on the one side.  
But, no, it was really nice playing out there.  
   
 Q.   You had a really successful Australia, sort of back to the grind.   Bring me up to date.   What have you been up to?  
MADISON BRENGLE:   I played a couple in South America after, and those didn't go quite well.   I feel like I'm playing a bit better again.   That was kind of a long trip to go right after Australia.   Maybe not the best pick on my schedule.   
But I get to play Miami and then Charleston.   I'm excited about those.   I like playing on the East Coast and I get to drive to both of those, so it will be nice.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like a different player after Australia, or do you think people see you differently?  
MADISON BRENGLE:   I'm not too bothered how other people see me, I guess.  
I do enjoy playing.   I'm happy being out there.   I'm happy to be healthy.   It's good.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What's your next goal after this one?  
MADISON BRENGLE:   Well, I guess I would like to have a good tournament in Miami, because that's the next one coming up.   
In the past I haven't had the best of clay court seasons.   It's not necessarily my favorite surface.   But I would like to have some good results on it, so that's one thing I'm going to try and work on is definitely getting ready for the clay court season.  
   
 Q.   What do you do to prepare for the clay court?  
MADISON BRENGLE:   Just make some adjustments and talk to my coaches and work on some stuff here and there.  
I'm a better player than I was a year ago, so hopefully that will translate and always just ‑‑I mean, it's just lots of little things, I guess, at this point.  
   
 Q.   What's the toughest part to adjusting to the tour at this level?  
MADISON BRENGLE:   I mean, I have been playing a while, so it's not ‑‑there's nothing that tough.   It's kind of nice.   Like I'm not having to grind through the challengers so much anymore, so it's probably made it a little easier.   
Obviously the tennis is tough, but like the other aspects of it are really nice.   Playing events like this and being in the main draw, it's quite fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT