DISCOVER ORANGE BOWL: STANFORD v VIRGINIA TECH
January 3, 2011
Frank Beamer
Tyrod Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Stanford 40
  Virginia Tech 12 
  
 JASON ALPERT: Coach, if you can just open up talking about maybe the differences you saw in Stanford in the first half to the second half.   
 COACH FRANK BEAMER: Well, I think number one, you give Stanford credit. I think they just played better than we did. I think they played better offensively as a unit, I think they played better defensively as a unit, and I think they played better on special teams as a unit. I think you give them credit.  
 I think it was right there and then just a couple of long plays against our defense, and then the game got away from us a little bit. Had them backed up, and felt like if we just hold them, we're one play from getting back in it. But then we got two scores down and it got away from us a little bit.  
 But they're really good. And I think they did some good things, and I think we helped them be good. But give them all the credit; they deserved the win, and good football team.   
  
  Q. Frank, you've played Heisman winners, you've played national champions, you've played lights-out defense. How good is Stanford?   
 COACH FRANK BEAMER: I think they're good. You know, they're good up front. They protect him well. They can run the football. They've got all those tight ends, and they've got good experience up front, guys that are veterans, a lot of seniors. And when you do that and they get the hard fake in there and the play action and got people running down the field free, it's tough to defend.   
 But again, I think they did some great things, and then I think we helped them be good. But in the end, they played better than we did.  
  
  Q. Tyrod, could you kind of talk about your emotions right now knowing that this is your last game and obviously didn't go as you had hoped.   
 TYROD TAYLOR: Disappointed.   
  
  Q. Second half, having to watch how far they got up, how frustrating was that for you considering you guys wanted to end the season on such a high note?  
 TYROD TAYLOR: It was frustrating, but I think we kind of helped some of the plays that happened as far as them going up on a lead, big turnover at a time it wasn't needed and wasn't good for the team. But you've got to bounce back and look forward. They just outplayed us in all parts of the game today.  
  
  Q. Tyrod, what were they doing up front? It seemed like you had more pressure in your face than maybe all season. Did they surprise you with anything? It seemed like they were blitzing you a lot.   
 TYROD TAYLOR: They stepped up as far as our protection goes when they were sliding into different fronts. It kind of messed up our protection, and that was the main thing I think right there. Their switching fronts was kind of confusing to me and the linemen as far as protection-wise.  
  
  Q. You guys talked about how this game was a big game in terms of sort of validating what had happened, the remarkable turnaround you guys had had to the season. How does this game -- I know we're five minutes after the game, but how does it affect your view on the season? How do you view this season in light of this game?  
 TYROD TAYLOR: I'm still proud of my boys for the way they fought this whole season. Unfortunately we didn't win the last game like we wanted to, but it's a heck of a season. It's nothing to hold your head down on.  
 COACH FRANK BEAMER: Yeah, I think that's the important thing to remember now is we had some great effort, we had some great plays. Tyrod had a lot of great plays. This football team had a lot of great plays. And I really believe we were right there and it got away from us there in the second half. That's disappointing. But I don't think his lack of effort -- I think it was lack of execution on our part, and that's Stanford. But I don't think you can just take away from all the great things Tyrod and his guys did because we're very, very disappointed right now.   
  
  Q. This question is for both of you guys: First Tyrod, then Coach, I know it's hard to think about right now but your best memories at Virginia Tech?  
 TYROD TAYLOR: I would just have to say just the whole four years. There's a lot of good memories in there. I would say Nebraska may be the best one. But there's a lot of memories in there. I can't put my finger on just one, but Nebraska stands out to me, and the win against Florida State my freshman year, even just the 11-win streak that we had this year stands out, too.   
 COACH FRANK BEAMER: Yeah, I mean, I think there's a bunch in there. I think certainly coming back at NC State was big. Keeping some plays alive and making big plays against Florida State for the ACC Championship. I think there's so many it's hard to put your finger on -- go back to last year, Nebraska, that's got to be -- you'll remember that for a long time. But this guy has been good. He's not only a great player, he's a great person, and I'm proud he was at Virginia Tech.   
 TYROD TAYLOR: Thank you.   
  
  Q. For both of you guys, with all the success that you guys have had comes that burden of representing the entire conference on this stage. Is that pressure fair? And how do you think you guys have handled it, especially today? What are your thoughts on sort of being the face of the ACC right now?   
 TYROD TAYLOR: We take that challenge when we won the ACC Championship and went on to play this game, so we knew that we had to represent for the ACC. We just didn't do it today. As I said, I'm proud of my team, just didn't come to play today.   
 COACH FRANK BEAMER: Yeah, you know, I'm disappointed that we didn't pull our end of the deal for the ACC. But again, I don't think it was a bad effort; it was just not as good execution as we need. I don't apologize for the effort we played with. I feel bad for our football team and for our fans and for the ACC that we didn't play better, that we didn't function better.   
 But I mean, the same kids that I loved before this game, I love them after. They've given a lot. They play hard, and they hit us -- you get those long plays on your defense, and they wear you out. In the first half that long play wore you out, and then all of a sudden we got them backed up, in two plays they score. Then we come back and we got a deep pass, and they ran a good play for another score. The thing kind of snowballed.   
 But getting that ACC Championship, I mean, there was a lot of effort and hard work going into that, too. I'm not going to forget all that. And like I said, the guys I loved before, I love them afterwards.   
  
  Q. It seemed like they had some success up front with you guys running the football. Was it a size difference, or was it what they were doing schematically?  
 COACH FRANK BEAMER: I think it was an execution difference. They did a good job. They moved those guys around and moved those big guys around and tried to get into different sets, and then all of a sudden motion. That's good stuff. When you've got experience you can do that, and of course you've got a quarterback that gets all that stuff squared away.   
 You've got to give them credit. I mean, what they start out in is not what they end up in. It's good coaching and good playing with good players.   
  
  Q. They really hurt you with the tight end today. Was that something you expected?   
 COACH FRANK BEAMER: Well, they hurt us, and I'm going to say it again, I think you give them credit because I think they did some good things, but I think we helped them be good. Not covering a guy and not filling a gap the way we should, and part of that, again, maybe goes back to so much moving around that you get a little bit confused. But I don't think we should have; I think we had -- I just don't think we executed our defense as well as we needed to.   
  
  Q. Tyrod, could you take us through the one touchdown pass you had. And I guess what were you saying to Coach Harbaugh afterwards? But most importantly just take us through how you pulled that play off and how it happened.   
 TYROD TAYLOR: I got flushed out the pocket to the left, wanted to keep the play alive and I seen Jarrett working to the back of the end zone, and that's who I was throwing to but David just try to make a play and he did it. As I was running to the sideline while I threw the football, their whole sideline was screaming I was out. I was asking Coach Harbaugh, was I out? He was saying I was in, but that's all.   
  
  Q. Frank, is this the best your running game has been defended all year? And how much was the lack of a rushing attack, how much did that add to all the frustration?   
 COACH FRANK BEAMER: Yeah, we definitely need to run the ball better. Again, you give them credit. I thought they did a great job filling gaps. But you know, early in the year against Boise we had trouble running the football, and you just -- you get yourself in 2nd and 9 and that's a hard way to live. And then we was hoping to spread them out a little bit and do a little optioning, and when you get behind by a couple touchdowns you kind of run out of time a little bit, I think.  
 But it's disappointing that we weren't more efficient offensively as far as being able to run the football and then being able to mix a run and a throw in there. Kind of got us out of our rhythm. You know, just give them credit, though; they did a good job.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT