ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2014
Garrett Boulware
Jack Leggett
Clate Schmidt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Georgia Tech: 3
  Clemson: 0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   We welcome Clemson to the dais, Head Coach Jack Leggett, Garrett Boulware and Clate Schmidt.   We will open it up with comments from Coach.   
COACH LEGGETT:   I thought Clate did a great job for us, went out and pitched in a great situation and gave us everything we had, put us in a position to win, we could just not get anything going offensively.   We had lead‑off men in the first 4 or 5 innings and couldn't materialize with it and get things going and couldn't get back‑to‑back hits together.   So it was a very tough and frustrating offensive day for us, after the good win last night.   
One of those games where they pitched exceptionally well and we just couldn't make adjustments.   
   
 Q.   What do you need to do to get ready for regionals offensively?   
COACH LEGGETT:   We actually played pretty good against Duke and played good yesterday, and played good offensively.   Seen good pitching all three days.   We just couldn't get it going today, that's all there is to it.   The other two days I was proud of how we played offensively and anytime you're in this league and playing in this kind of tournament, you are you're going to see everybody's combination of "best guys" and we were just a little off the mark today and maybe they were a little better on the mound, against our hitters.   
   
 Q.   Coach, you've been looking for a third starter, have you found him?   
COACH LEGGETT:   He did a great job for us, that's all there is to it.   Had a really good feeling about him going into the game actually, and he proved to be the right guy against them and pitched out of some jams early.   We made a couple of mistakes one inning where we couldn't handle the bunt, that kinda hurt us.   
At the same time if you don't score runs you're not going to win a ballgame, so we couldn't piece anything together offensively to get the spark going that we needed.   
   
 Q.   Clate, when did you find out you were starting?   What was your mind‑set coming into the game?   
CLATE SCHMIDT:   We talked about it before we got here, that it was kind of up in the air and last night it was made official, and Coach told me about it.   It was just one of those days, they battled and battled and we battled.   They just came out on top.   Defense behind me played great.   I got myself in a couple of bad spots and they got me out of it and Okey was back there working hard for me.   I can't be mad at 'em, because they bailed me out plenty of other times, and it's just how it rolled today.   
   
 Q.   Is it the kind of performance you can take confidence from moving forward?   
CLATE SCHMIDT:   Yeah, I felt great today.   Felt like it was a really good performance.   I really wish I would have, kind of left a spot better for Campbell coming in, but I'll give Campbell that ball 10 out of 10 times.   I trust that man more than anybody.   
It's just how it goes today but I feel confident about the next games and coming into the regional.   
   
 Q.   Jack, do you feel good going into Monday?   
COACH LEGGETT:   I would hope so, you know.   We played tough in this tournament, it's a great conference.   We finished second in our division, fifth in the conference, won two ballgames here, beat Duke, beat Miami, played tough today.   
We got a great baseball team.   I would be shocked and disappointed if anything else happened, so we're looking forward to going back and practicing and hopefully preparing ourselves for next weekend.   
   
 Q.   Garrett, kind of along the same lines.   Where does the team's confidence level fall right now?  
GARRETT BOULWARE:   Our confidence is up.   Today it just didn't click.   Clate pitched awesome.   Next thing we found out about is we got a third starter.   I'm just glad we found that and we're a good hitting team.   So when we have those three things clicking together, we will do some damage after this.   
   
 Q.   Was there anything in particular that their pitcher did?   
GARRETT BOULWARE:   He's a good pitcher.   We had a good approach coming into the game.   We expected to hit this guy and he made the pitches and we weren't expecting them, and we put some bad swings on balls.   He was trying to get us to swing at it and it worked in their favor.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT