NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
May 30, 2000
Scott Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Will you compare this team to 1995?

SCOTT STEVENS: Well, yeah, we have a good team. We have good chemistry. We have four
good lines and we have the same goalie and we have a solid defense.

Q. Do you feel you are playing at the same level that you were playing in 1995?

SCOTT STEVENS: I guess so. The Playoffs have been going good. I mean, the whole team is
playing well and individuals are playing well and that is a big part of it. We are playing
great as a team and everyone is looking good out there. Obviously I feel good at this
point. I feel strong at this time of year right now and it has been fun so far.

Q. Considering the defensive reputations of these two teams heading into this game, how
surprised were you by the outcome?

SCOTT STEVENS: I was thinking the same thing out there. I said, geez, there is a lot of
scoring out here and everyone is expecting a boring, slow game and I mean, it started out
pretty slow. There is a lot -- I mean, a lot of trapping going out in the neutral zone.
Obviously it is tough to get through there. I am sure both teams are playing very patient,
but we finally broke it open; got the puck in deep and we got some cycling down there and
scored some nice goals.

Q. The Sykora-Arnott line, that is not a surprise, but even Kenny Daneyko in the same
game, that had to be pretty exciting. Talk about the one you scored and to see him score
one.

SCOTT STEVENS: I just saw I could jump in the play with Pando. We had odd man. I think
he -- we had a forward back there and Pando dropped the puck to me. I hesitated looking if
someone is coming. There was no one else coming. I took the shot. I think I caught Belfour
in between there. Kenny's goal was great. When he shot it I was on the bench. I was hoping
nobody else touched it. I wanted him to score. You never know when that shot goes, you
think one touched it. It was great for Kenny to get his first and he didn't score all
year, but that was a big goal for us tonight.

Q. After the events in the 7th game, you made some statements about -- I was wondering
how long it took you emotionally to get through everything that happened in winning that
series and I guess the hit was deemed as a clean one, was it gone? Did you leave it there?

SCOTT STEVENS: Leave what there? It is a new game here. This is -- I mean, yeah, it was
a good series. It was nice to come back. We made history. But we are in the Finals right
now, and we had a great game tonight.

Q. How important is the momentum with scoring so many goals?

SCOTT STEVENS: We played well, but I think everyone knows that Dallas didn't play their
best game. We played well. We did some good things out there, but I expect them to be a
lot better the next game and we have to be better also.

Q. Midway through that second period there Marty makes two big saves in rapid
succession on Modano and Hull. 30 seconds later Kenny scores. What did that do for you
guys momentum-wise?

SCOTT STEVENS: Well, it was a big save. The first shot by Modano was kind of a
knuckleball. Then there is a rebound. He made the rebound save. That was huge for us. And
there is no question that gives the team life and gives the guys confidence. Then we come
back and score. You see that a lot in hockey, a few big saves and the other team comes
down and answers back.

Q. After having to share this place with Flyers fans, what is it like having your own
building back?

SCOTT STEVENS: We realize that there wasn't going to be many Dallas fans. It was great.
We had a lot of New Jersey Devil fans out there and saw a lot of jerseys and it was a very
loud crowd. It was great. They gave us a definite boost at the start of the game.

Q. Do you take it as, I don't know, a sign of accomplishment that Modano and Hull were
so quiet tonight? You were on the ice against them for so much.

SCOTT STEVENS: Well, the forwards that played with me against that line did a heck of a
job too. They are very important. It takes a lot of people to keep them off the board.
Also my partner, Rafalski, it was nice, we are definitely aware of them. You got to really
watch the passing lanes and they -- I mean, Modano made some nice moves still, but for the
most part we did a good job and we got some help from Marty.

Q. You guys were down 3-1. You have now won four in a row. Are you on the best roll you
have been on in a while since mid-season?

SCOTT STEVENS: We are playing well. I mean, we gave a couple of late goals up, but we
have been doing a great job in keeping the shots-against down. That is very important. If
you look at our last games, the reason why we have only -- we have been giving up under 20
shots per game. That is very important. We are deflecting a lot of pucks and getting our
sticks in the lanes. We got Marty there for the big saves. That goes for the winning
streak. We are playing great defensively; just got to keep doing the same things and not
give up a lot of shots.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT