NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 2, 2003
Scott Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Does the value of one goal in the series indicate how defense is playing?

SCOTT STEVENS: It's turned that way now.  It's very important.  Last two games in overtime and both teams playing pretty darn well, and good goaltending on both ends.  And they have had a bit of a roll in overtime.  We can see that.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT STEVENS: Well, you just try to do your best.  I thought we played pretty well in every game.

Q.  What do you have to do different?

SCOTT STEVENS: Use our home ice to our advantage and change to our advantage.  I thought we played a much better game today.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT STEVENS: I don't think you think about it.  You think it's another period and go out there and play.  That's what we talked about.  It's just another period.  It's no different than playing the third period 0-0.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT STEVENS: The pressure is on us.  We'll go home and try to get the job done and get the next win.

Q.  Do you think the fatigue factor is playing into this at all?

SCOTT STEVENS: I don't know.  We're not using as many people, but we had some time off.  We had some good stretches where we have had some rest.  I don't think it's a factor now.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT STEVENS: Well, you know what?  If we played terrible and got blown out, it's a little tougher to take.  I thought we played much better today than we did the third game.  We've got to stay positive. 

Q.  Does this have a psychological wear and tear?

SCOTT STEVENS: No, we're going to stay positive.  We've beat this team twice, and we had two games in overtime.  Like I said, we're going to keep our heads up and go from there.

Q.  Does it feel like a whole new series now?

SCOTT STEVENS: That's fine.  We'll go home and give it our best shot there and see what happens.

Q.  What's the main difference between the Mighty Ducks in Games 1 and 2?

SCOTT STEVENS: They're more aggressive, even with their D.  They're not sitting back as much when we're still getting chances.  The bottom line is, we're getting chances.

Q.  Do you think Giguere has found his game a little more than he had in the first two?

SCOTT STEVENS: We need traffic, and the rebounds are there.  We had some good chances tonight.  It was a back-and-forth game.  It was a good game both ways, once again, a game that could have went both ways.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT STEVENS: It's not demoralizing.  It's frustrating.  It's not over yet.  That's the way it is.  We go back to our building, and we've played pretty well here.  You can't be too discouraged with that.  Both games, we had a chance to win.

Q.  Who is the pressure on now?

SCOTT STEVENS: I don't care.  We can put it all on us.  That's fine.  We're going home, and we need a big effort there.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT STEVENS: Yeah.  We're not going to dwell on that.  We're going to move ahead and look for the next game and go from there.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT STEVENS: We played great.  We played unbelievable.  I can't complain with that.  He gave us a chance to win.

Q.  Have you guys gained a new respect?  Do you see this team in a different light?

SCOTT STEVENS: I think we always respected them.  We always knew what they had, and they're playing much better, but we're still right there.  We still had a chance to win both games.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT STEVENS: I don't know why it is.  It's something that happens.  I don't think you can look at any specific thing.  Like I said, it's no different than playing the third period 0-0.  We talked about it, but it didn't happen.  There is no difference in playing the third period 0-0 than going into the fourth period.

Q.  What do you need to do to regain the momentum in this series?

SCOTT STEVENS: I don't know, get the first goal.

Q.  Now in this series, the home team has won all four games so far.  Has it been difficult to play on the road?

SCOTT STEVENS: For us? 

Q.  For both teams.

SCOTT STEVENS: I don't know.  I thought we've played pretty well on the road.  We went into overtime twice on the road.  It would be nice to win it outright.  We must be doing something right.

Q.  Have they picked up the physical intensity in this series?

SCOTT STEVENS: More so than the first two, but nothing that's abnormal.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT