NHL DRAFT
June 24, 2016
Auston Matthews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Getting you to this point in your career is certainly a family project. Can you describe the unique moment you had with your family upon hearing your name selected by the Maple Leafs?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Yeah, it was a dream come true. Like you said, they've done so much for me, a lot of sacrifices for me to get to this point. They've been a huge part in this, so it was a very special moment. 

Q. What was going through your mind when you heard all the booing as the Leaf party was announced and then hearing your own name announced and the reception that you got?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: My heart was beating as I was walking up there, but very nerve‑racking. Once they called my name, it was definitely a sigh of relief. A lot of excitement. My family, they're with me, so it was a pretty unbelievable feeling.

Q. You go to a media market that is as big as there is certainly in hockey and maybe among the biggest in all of sport. What do you think the challenges will be for you as a first‑year player sort of balancing all of that with simply playing the game?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Right. I mean, it's going to be an adjustment for sure, but it's something that I feel I can handle well. Obviously over time we'll get better and better at it. I'm definitely looking forward to it.

Q. How did it feel to put on the jersey, and what do you think of the new jersey design, by the way?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: It looks good. I like it. It felt unbelievable putting on the jersey. You know, such a storied franchise, so it was a big honor. 

Q. Even before they called your name, there was like rows of fans in this building wearing tee shirts that say Auston 2016. Can you grasp how big a deal this is back in Toronto yet?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Yeah, you could see it up there in the stands there, pretty loud up there, so it was definitely a pretty cool moment. 

Q. You got to represent your country for the national team development program for two years. What did that do for your development getting ready to go pro and now with the Maple Leafs?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: It was huge for me. Those were two of the best years of my life with those 22 guys. You get so close. So being able to win a couple world championships was just the cherry on top. Development‑wise you're going against the top kids in the country, working out every day, skating and practicing against them, so it definitely helped me a lot in the long run. 

Q. This is a franchise that is starving for some sort of success. This is a franchise that has seen a lot of disappointment over the last decade, and they're looking at you as a savior. How does that feel to have fans looking at you as the guy that's going to be the cornerstone of the future of this franchise?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Well, hockey is a team game, so there's really no savior. I want to be an impact player. I believe I can be a franchise centerman, the No.1 centerman in the NHL, so that's my ultimate goal.

Q. What do you hope to accomplish in season 1 with the Leafs, and how did Mark Crawford prepare you for season 1 in the NHL?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: I just want to win as much as possible. It's going to be a learning curve. The NHL is the best league in the world, so for me I definitely want to learn a lot, soak in as much as possible, and just try to continue to get better and better each day.

Q. And Crawford?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Yeah, he was huge. Just looking at his résumé, he's won a Stanley Cup, coached some very special players, so I think having him as a coach this year will help me tremendously.

Q. Patrick goes second; what have you learned about him throughout this whole process and what do you think of him as a player?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Yeah, he's a great player. Obviously he's got that big size, big shots. We've spent quite a bit of time together these last couple months. We've played against each other quite a bit over the last few years, so I'm pretty sure we're pretty familiar with each other.

Q. What did your dad whisper in your ear when you hugged him after the announcement was made?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: He just said congratulations, God bless. I'm sure they're very emotional. They're very proud of me. Like I said before, I wouldn't be here without them. 

Q. What have people been saying to you in Arizona about what this means for your home state?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: I mean, it's been a great reception. I think it's been great not only for Arizona but the whole southwestern region. It's continuing to grow, and it's just cool to be a part of it.

Q. Were you surprised Jesse didn't go third?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Yeah, I don't know. I mean, that's not up to me. I'm very happy for Pierre‑Luc. I've gotten to know him very well. I'm actually rooming with him here, so I know he definitely deserves it.

Q. When you look at coming into the Maple Leafs there's a lot of young players on this team. Does that make it exciting for you to come into a franchise that's sort of burgeoning and on the cusp of using those young players?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, those young guys, William Nylander and Mitch Marner, obviously two pretty special players, so I think it's definitely an exciting kind of looking forward. 

Q. What do you know about Toronto? What are you expecting? 
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Well, I know everybody there is extremely passionate. They obviously love the Leafs. They love‑‑ it's a great sports town with the Blue Jays, the Raptors. They're obviously very passionate, and it's something you definitely don't want to take for granted. Everybody has told me when they're winning it's the best place in the league. That's definitely something that I'm looking forward to. 

Q. I understand you've had a chance to meet Mike Babcock. What do you expect it's going to be like playing for him?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: I think it will be a huge honor. His résumé speaks for itself, Olympic champion, Stanley Cup champion. He's definitely somebody I look forward to working with. I think I can learn a lot from a guy like him. 

Q. Buffalo obviously going to be a big city in your heart for the rest of your life where you got picked, but also a rival now. Can you talk about what this city is going to forever mean but also know that now you're the bad guy to this city?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Yeah, it's a little‑‑ kind of goes both ways, I guess. It's been nice, like you said. It'll be in our hearts forever here, being drafted here in Buffalo, and hopefully down the line we'll have some pretty good games here.

Q. When is the first time you'll report for a prospects' camp or whatever?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: July 3rd, I guess. I think the camp starts the 4th. I'm sure I'll be there the 3rd. 

Q. Are you looking forward to your first NHL hockey card, and when you get them, who are the first people you're going to give them to?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: I am. I'm very much looking forward to that. I'm not sure. I'm sure I'll kind of spread it around my family and some of my close friends. 

Q. You touched on this a little earlier, but Mark Crawford said he spoke with you at length and your family about the pressures of playing in Toronto. Can you expand on what he said to you?
AUSTON MATTHEWS: Well, that's exactly what he said. They're very passionate, very under the microscope, obviously with the media and everything. But he said if eventually I go there, it would be a blast. Now that I'm a part of the organization, I couldn't be happier. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT