CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2018
Su Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Besides the bogey on the first hole, can you talk to me about your round?  
SU OH: I played solidly like the whole day.  It's really cold this morning.  I didn't expect it.  So it was a little bit like -- it took a little bit to warm up, too.  After the first hole -- I just got in the rough and just kind of a soft bogey.  But yeah, the rest of the -- I think the first six holes was tough, and then I just parred them and played solidly, and I knew -- it's only one bogey, so if I can just make it one bogey, hopefully I can get a few birdies and finish on a par, and then I did.  So I'm pretty happy with my round overall.   
 Q.  What part of your game was working well today?  
SU OH: A little bit -- my irons were pretty good today.  They've been pretty good like yesterday and today.  First round wasn't as good.  My wedges were solid.  I think everything is just pretty good, yeah.   
I think my putting was really good yesterday, and hopefully tomorrow it will be as good as it was yesterday.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about your game at this point in the season and to go into a final round feeling pretty good, atop the leaderboard?  
SU OH: Yeah, I mean, you're always so happy to be up top.  This is what you come out every week grinding your ass for, like trying to finish up top.  It's like a marathon.  I have one more round, and I still have a little bit of a move to make it up to the top, so hopefully tomorrow I can keep it going and keep moving up a little bit.   
 Q.  What do you think will have to work out in your favor tomorrow to get a score that you're looking for or a place you're looking for?  
SU OH: Probably I'd say keep the irons going but also just off the tee, it makes a massive difference between fairway and rough.  Hopefully if I can just get it on the fairway a little bit more, and if my irons keep doing what they've been doing, I'll give myself lots of opportunities, so that's my goal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT