ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 27, 2018
Su Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just your feeling for two days here.  
SU OH: Just two days, no, I felt really good.  I was like super tired during the practice rounds, but I saw the physios like every day.  I think just because I came from Melbourne, just felt like a long way away, and I got here Sunday, and the first three days were really slow because I kept waking up at like 4 in the morning.  But then I felt pretty good Thursday and felt pretty good today.  Got so lucky with the weather, so I think that was really pleased.   
 Q.  So you came from Melbourne.  You had a big stretch between KPMG and this week.  So what all did you do during that time?  
SU OH: A lot of nothing.  It was really good to be back.  Like I enjoyed it so much.  And it's kind of like a mini off season, I think.  I was really debating whether to go home or not because I've never done it before, but I think it was the right call.  I just chilled out and hung out with the family, because I've been away since January pretty much.  I mean I played the Australian Open, but I didn't really go back home.  So it was good to be back and see my friends.   
 Q.  So total time you were home?  
SU OH: Like three weeks.  I missed the cut at KPMG, so I got home Monday and then flew out.   
 Q.  That next Monday?  
SU OH: Yeah.  I booked a flight and I was home.   
 Q.  I was just looking at your scorecard.  You made a lot of birdies.  You made 11 birdies this week.  
SU OH: Yeah.   
 Q.  So are you enjoying links golf?  
SU OH: Yeah, I love it.  I love coming here, yeah.  I guess I grew up in Melbourne playing.   
 Q.  So you've got a bit of experience.  
SU OH: Yeah, I mean it's not the same, but it's just so much fun playing here in something different.  It's tough, but the weather has been nice so far.  Tomorrow I think it might rain a little bit, but that's kind of part of it.   
 Q.  If the weather does come in tomorrow and the rain and wind start, does that bother you or is that something that you're going to relish?  
SU OH: It's definitely tougher, but it doesn't really bother me exactly.  I think I've played a lot in the wind.  And it was so windy back home for three weeks.  Like it was either cold and not as windy or like kind of bearable and windy.  So I practiced a lot in the wind.   
 Q.  So you had a bit of three weeks practicing in the wind that no one else has had?  
SU OH: Yeah, I guess so.  But no, I mean I think into the wind it's going to play tough and downwind it's probably not going to play as tough.  The course kind of goes out and in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT