CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2019
Su Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  69 in round 1, 67 today, two-shot improvement to get to 8-under. How does it feel just to be in this spot and kind of see that game trending in a positive direction?  
SU OH: Yeah, it's really nice. I hit the ball really well the last two days. Probably not that great on the front nine yesterday, just scrambled well. I just played solid, really. Just made the most out of my opportunities. It's kind of an annoying 6 on that par-5. Didn't really do anything that crazy, but sometimes you just walk off with a 6 and try and make it up. Yeah, overall I played really solid the last two days.   
 Q.  Your third appearance in Naples at the CME Group Tour Championship. What have you been able to do so far? Does that show maybe your comfortability with Tiburón and how you're getting accustomed to it a little more?  
SU OH: Definitely the grain. I'm from Melbourne, and there's like no grain whatsoever. It's really firm there. So just playing in Florida, especially this course for some reason, is really grainy. For putting I think it's the toughest, and chipping, of course, but you can choose different options when you're chipping, but putting I feel like if you hit a bad putt, it shows so much in the grain. So that was something that I had to get used to. But as always, just try and hit a good putt.   
 Q.  You're right in contention, obviously, at the halfway point, $1.5 million on the line. What would that mean to you?  
SU OH: It would just be amazing, but not just the money but the win itself would be pretty cool. But I think what CME has done with the Tour Championship is just amazing and what they do for the St. Jude Hospital, as well. This is by far the best and the biggest tournament. It feels like what a Tour Championship should feel like. You play your way through Asia, which is a bonus really, and then you get to the Tour Champs and there's like only 60 players and there's not that many. It's just not that busy with a massive purse. It's really good to be here.   
 Q.  It seems like the first five, six holes or so play a little tougher than the rest of the course. Is that important tomorrow to get off to a quick start on those holes just for the weekend?  
SU OH: Yeah, I think so, but really just honestly, just hit one shot at a time. I think it is tough just because of the line off the tee. Even the first hole you can't really see, and the second and the third is kind of a long hole. So it's just not like an easy starting five holes. But I think coming in, you get the opportunity. I think that's what's so great about this golf course. It's a tough start, but you can make it up on the back nine. Not that I did today, but it's just all out there, so I'll see what I can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT