SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 31, 2019
Su Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you sum up your round in kind of tricky conditions out there maybe?
SU OH: Yeah, the wind's pretty strong. It kind of drops off and then it's strong, and then because yesterday morning was so calm, it was playing very different. But it's starting to get a bit heavier with the rain, like when I was finishing. It's just very on and off.
I'll probably take this knowing the last few times, but the greens are still quite receptive luckily, and -- but I played pretty well all day. I was quite -- I guess somewhat aggressive. But like on 9, I just -- I didn't hit it that bad but the wind just took it at the end and it just went in the hazard and then just made a really silly double. But I bounced back pretty well, and then made four birdies coming in. So it's a pretty solid day, other than that one.
Q. So how nice is that to shake off the double immediately? I think you went birdie, birdie, birdie?
SU OH: Yeah, it wasn't like -- I was kind of angry but I wasn't like fuming. I was like maybe I'll just like make a couple of birdies.
I feel -- and then I went like birdie, birdie, birdie. I was like, oh, okay, that's nicer. Then like 13 to like 18, kind of tough coming in, and made a really good birdie on 15, so I was happy with that.
Overall, it was a really solid back nine.
Q. You had a good finish last week. Do you feel like things are clicking for you right now?
SU OH: Yeah, I'm hitting the ball well the last few weeks. Shanghai, I didn't putt well at all. I actually putted terribly. And then I finished bad on Sunday in Shanghai, as well, and then I finished bad last week, as well.
But I learnt a lot last week, playing in the second-to-last group, and under the nerve a little bit. I mean, like Ha Na and Danielle played like lights out, so probably couldn't have caught them, anyway.
But to see how it gets done, I guess. I mean, I played with Danielle and I thought she was going to play like she was going to win by like three, but I guess just things just didn't go her way.
But I saw how well she played, and it's really not over until it's over. I learned a lot last week. I'm happy I've still got the momentum going with me, and hopefully finish strong.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT