UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 5, 2018
Katherine Kirk
Su Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Katherine and Su, tremendous win today from a loss yesterday.  What turned things around?  You guys beat a strong combination out there, Katherine.
KATHERINE KIRK: We did.  It was funny, Su played are really well on the front nine yesterday and I think I played well on the front nine today.  Just ham and egged it really well today and made some clutch putts when we needed to.
They struggled a little bit and had a few lip outs, so, yeah, nice to get some points on the board.
Q. You guys got an early lead; never trailed; you were pretty much in control of that match throughout.
SU OH: Yeah, like Kat said, I mean, she played great on the back nine.  I was struggling a bit, but we didn't really win with pars, I don't think.
KATHERINE KIRK: We had some good birdies.
SU OH: Oh, on one maybe, but she was playing really well.  I think the key was that we were both in the game the whole time.  Like it wasn't like one of us were out of position completely.  Maybe like one or two holes.
I think it was important to give a birdie try at least from one of us and hopefully hole one of them.
Q. Match play requires being aggressive.  How do you remain aggressive being miserable conditions like this?
KATHERINE KIRK: I don't know if I play more aggressively in match play actually.  I mean, you figure out a game plan at the start of the week similar to what you would in stroke play.
You might change things based on the match status or perhaps how your partner is on a certain hole, but this golf course is tough.  We're not playing not aggressive.  Probably playing a bit more conservatively because a lot of the runoffs are so severe.
SU OH: It's playing long.
KATHERINE KIRK: It is playing ridiculously long.
SU OH: Especially with in the rain.  It's just like so long.
Q. How do you prepare yourself mentally for what's going to be an incredibly long day?
KATHERINE KIRK: I think we're only going to probably get another nine or so in.  Yeah, that's longer than what we're used to, but we knew that going into it today.
Yeah, grab some lunch here and head on out.  Obviously got a little confidence from this morning, so that always helps you get through I think a second match.
Q. How much hungrier were you to get that win today after the loss yesterday?
SU OH: Very.  Extremely.  I mean, Sarah and Minjee played so well yesterday I heard.  Still got one point, but we were really looking forward to get that two points today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT