CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2018
Su Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  9-under through round 2 here in Portland, 3-under for the day, following a 6-under round for the first round yesterday.  Great 36-hole finish.  What was working out there for you today?  
SU OH: You know, I didn't do any -- just everything was okay.  I sort of found something in my swing in the back nine, so that really helped, and I was hitting the ball a bit better.  You know, I played quite well.  The last hole was a bit of a bummer, and I hit probably the wrong club, but I didn't really hit any bad shots really, I just missed a putt.  I think if I just work on my speed a little bit more in my putting, I should be good for the weekend.   
 Q.  You had great finishes recently.  Can you talk about the course conditions here at Columbia Edgewater sort of matches up with your game?  
SU OH: Yeah, there was not much wind out there today, so I thought there would be lots of birdies, but looking at the leaderboard, I mean, there's still obviously some good scores, but I think the pins are a bit tougher today, so it was a little bit harder to get to the pins, and the putts broke a little bit more.  So it was just a little tougher in general.  I'm not sure how good the scores will be this afternoon, but I'm pretty happy with how I played, especially the back nine today.   
 Q.  You had a pretty big group following you today.  Did that add any pressure to you at all?  
SU OH: No.  I mean, I love it when there's people out watching, and I think it's great for our game.  You know, I'm really happy that people came out and watched from the beginning.  Thanks to the fans.   
 Q.  This is the last event before Evian; how are you gearing up, and how are you using this week to really prepare yourself for that major?  
SU OH: Not just this week, but like the last half -- second half of the year, I felt like my ball-striking has gotten a little bit better, and the last few weeks my putting has gotten a bit better, too.  Hopefully it'll just come together and we'll have a really good strong finish for the last major of the year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT