NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Cole Aldrich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  No. 11 Selection, New Orleans Hornets

 Q. Thoughts right now? 
 COLE ALDRICH: I just want to thank everybody for coming out here. You know, I'm just excited about the opportunity that's ahead of me. You know, it's been a long way since I started playing basketball, but you know, my dream's come true, and the hard work only begins. 

 Q. Talk about how playing with the high-quality players helped you propel your game and how it will help you at the next level? 
 COLE ALDRICH: It's really going to help me a lot, because I think my freshman year, I played with five pros. Last year, with Sherron and I on the team, and us three on the Draft right now, it's one of those things that really sets you up to really prepare you for success. 

 Q. I know you're looking forward to running the pick-and-roll and everything. 
 COLE ALDRICH: I'm very excited because Chris Paul is one of the best guys -- one of the best point guards in the league and a very unselfish guy at that, so it's going to be fun playing with those guys.

 Q. What strengths do you think that you bring to a team? What's going to be the biggest asset? 
 COLE ALDRICH: Oh, definitely defensive side. You know, the biggest thing to my game is shot-blocking, defending and rebounding. You know, I'm kind of a unique big guy who loves to go and bang other big guys and kind of do the dirty work. You know, I could really do that well and I'm just going to continue to work out there.

 Q. There's indications there's a trade that may move you to Oklahoma City; if you do end up there, do you feel like that's a unique place for you, because they obviously have such a need at center? 
 COLE ALDRICH: Oh, yeah. I think whatever team it is; if I stay in New Orleans, or if I go to Oklahoma City, you know, the need for a big guy is great. I'm not going to try to go in and do spectacular things, only the things that I'm good at. I'm good at rebounding and defending and blocking shots and that's how I'm going to make my presence on the court early is doing those things. I'm definitely working hard on my offensive game, too. 

 Q. You have a very good post player in David West, as well, with New Orleans. So how is that going to free things for you? How will it free things up for you, especially on the boards? 
 COLE ALDRICH: Oh, I think it's going to be good, just going up and battling with another big guy. The thing I'm excited about is learning from those guys and picking their brains. They have been in the league for years and I just aspire to do what they have done so far. I think just picking their brains and going out there and learning so much.

 Q. What do you know about Monty Williams, first-year coach?
 COLE ALDRICH: He's only been there since I think the 7th, so, you know, he was at workouts. He ran our workouts. He's going to be a great coach. He's one of those coaches that really loves to kind of get back on the court and just be there with the guys, you know, just make sure that the guys work hard and it's going to be another great coach to play for. 

 Q. Can you just talk about two things, Xavier going after you, and the moment that you had with your dad and family, knowing how important they have been to you? 
 COLE ALDRICH: It's great, because I was texting Xavier over the past week, just seeing if he had got his invite out here and all that. He text me late one night and said, "I got it. I'm going to see you out there." I could imagine how big his smile was out there.
 Just great to see him, and you know, I'm just so thankful for my parents. My parents and my family, just to be there for me; I've gone through so much, and you know, without them, I don't think we could be as strong as we are. 

 Q. Was it icing on the cake, I guess, two Jayhawks going right in a row like that? Can you describe what that is like for you guys? 
 COLE ALDRICH: It's great. Xavier and I have become great friends. We always text each other and hang out. We always love just being around each other because we have got a great friendship and he really looks up to me and I look up to him, too. It's really a special deal. 

 Q. You lost your front tooth in a game; have you embraced that kind of bad boy image? 
 COLE ALDRICH: I did? (Removing cap, revealing gap between front teeth). (Laughter).
 I'm a goofy guy that loves to play hard. I lost it my sophomore year, and I had a mouth guard in and fortunately I only lost one. It's a characteristic of me, a guy that loves to go and get in the trenches and just fight for my team, whether it's breaking my nose like I did my sophomore year or losing my tooth like I did my sophomore year. I just love getting in there and fighting with the guys.

 Q. Oklahoma City obviously has another former Jayhawk in this Nick Collison; have you established a relationship with him over your two years at Kansas? 
 COLE ALDRICH: Oh, yeah, he comes back every once in awhile and we go down and play Oklahoma City or Oklahoma -- Oklahoma State, he tries to get out to those games. So just with him on Oklahoma City or with Julian still on the Hornets, it's going to be a fun next few years. 

 Q. Would you like to be able to pick your employer in the NBA like in college?
 COLE ALDRICH: Oh, I would have no idea what to do. The whole draft process, I've been pretty relaxed the whole time until, you know, it got around that 9, kind of 10 area, and there, and you know, I was a little bit nervous. I was trying to keep my mind -- I was texting my friends jokes and stuff like that. I was trying to keep my mind off of things. It's an exciting time for us. 

 Q. I have to ask, does the University of Kansas have a good dental and other medical facilities that you recommend? 
 COLE ALDRICH: Oh, yeah, we definitely do. Justin Anderson does a great job, just haven't had enough time to get it done. Been too busy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT