US OPEN
September 12, 2004
Michaella Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Well done.

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  Thank you. 

Q.  How different a feeling is it from this time last year?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  Last year I was really disappointed I lost the final, and this year I'm really happy I won.  I won the doubles yesterday, so I'm really glad I made two titles here.

Q.  Is it more special because of what happened last year?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  I think I was more comfortable, a lot of more comfortable in the final, because I was going with the feeling that I already did this last year, so I don't have to be nervous.  I think that was the important point for me that I won.

Q.  But, I mean, having an unhappy experience, then coming back and having a very happy experience, does that make it more special, more exciting?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  I have to say I was really happy because last year it was my first, like, US Open Grand Slam.  So I was really happy I reached the final, though.  So it was disappointing that I lost in the final, but it makes a little bit special this year, of course, that I won.  But I was last year really happy, too.

Q.  Did you expect to dominate her as well as you did today?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  No, I didn't expect it at all because I didn't ever play her, so I didn't knew how it was going to be.  I played really well.  My serve was going good.  Yeah, I didn't made a lot of mistakes, so, yeah.

Q.  You must be very pleased with your fitness.  Only yesterday you had a tough day, yet you came back today. 

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  Yeah, I improved.  That's what I said already.  I improved a lot already my physically points, so I'm really happy that I did like this. 

Q.  Did the TV cameras bother you at all?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  No, no, no.  I'm already used to it, so (smiling). 

Q.  You don't mind being a bit of a star? 

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  A little bit, no.  I don't mind - a little star (smiling). 

Q.  So with two Grand Slam titles, how will you celebrate now? 

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  I have to celebrate a lot because today I don't think I will really celebrate because I'm going home by plane to Holland.  I think I will celebrate it tomorrow in Holland.

Q.  With your friends and family?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  Yeah, of course.

Q.  Big party?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  I think only with my friends because my family, my mom and my brother are in Czech.  Then I would celebrate it the same in Czech Republic.

Q.  Have you had lots of phone calls?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  I had a lot of messages and stuff.  I don't know, I didn't even check my e-mails.  It's nice.

Q.  How important is it for you now as a step to what comes next, being a Junior Grand Slam champion?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  I think it's nice to win a tournament, but it stays a tournament, of course.  So it's like every week there's another tournament.  But I think I improved a little bit more than last year with my physically and my serve is good.  So I think -- I hope that next year I will play here quali or main draw in the US Open. 

Q.  Will you be looking at your world ranking now, Junior ranking? 

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  Uhm, yeah.  I really don't know how many points I get and everything, so I really hope that I'm gonna be No. 1.  But I don't know.  Really, I hope so.  But if it's not gonna be, then No. 2 is good, too (smiling). 

Q.  Will you continue to play Juniors then for the rest of the year? 

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  Yeah, I had this question already - I think from you (laughing).  But, yeah, I don't think I'm going to play a lot of Juniors this year anymore, but maybe if it's going to be really close, then I'm going to try to play Orange Bowl or something like that, so...

Q.  But presumably this gives you a big amount of confidence.  This is one of the last Junior events you play, then you go to the circuit.  Do you start with a different kind of confidence because you're a Grand Slam champion?

MICHAELLA KRAJICEK:  Yeah, just like I said, it's a tournament, so all the girls who were playing here were playing last week and the week before.  It's a big competition.  I think that this week I was lucky that I won the semifinal, because you still have to know that I had two matchpoints against me. So, I mean, yeah, it gives me a lot of confidence and I hope I will play very good like in the - how will I say it?  - in the next couple weeks and months and everything. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT