U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2014
Peter Senior
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Peter, 3-under today.  PETER SENIOR: I think to do well around here you got to putt pretty good.  You know, you're not going to hit all the fairways, you're not going to hit all the greens and it's pretty difficult to get your chips pretty close so, you know, you always leaving yourself those 5 and 6-footers.  They can be pretty tricky here.  So, I putted pretty good today but I played a lot better than I did the first two days.   Q.  I think a lot of guys would love to get a 68 today.  PETER SENIOR: Well, I'm one of them (laughter).  So, yeah, it's always good.  I had a couple of real good chances around the middle of the back-9 to improve on that but I made two good saves on 17 and 18 which sort of makes the day a bit pleasing.   Q.  So you birdied the par 5, 12th today.  Were you able to get there in two or --  PETER SENIOR: No.  I hit it out to about 66 yards short and chipped it to about 8 feet and holed it.  I did get on in two on the next par 5 but three-putted. So, you know, my ball went right down to the back and the pin was only five on.  You know, I putted it well past but, you know, it was just nice to hit some good golf shots.  It's been a long time since I played pretty good.  Looking forward to playing tomorrow.   Q.  Do you have a basic goal to get back to even par or under par tomorrow for the tournament?  PETER SENIOR: If you can finish under par around here you've done pretty well.  As I said, I haven't been playing well but today I played really well, drove it really good which sort of makes the course a lot easier when you come from the short stuff.  So, you know, I putted good for three days and hopefully I'll do again tomorrow.   Q.  Have you been driving the ball fairly well all week, finding the fairway?  PETER SENIOR: First two days, I missed -- I missed a lot of fairways yesterday.  I've been mistiming it.  But today I don't know what was different.  You know, I probably only missed two fairways today and they were in the first cut.  So, I didn't have a ball that was actually in the rough today.  So, you know, made it a lot easier to play.   Q.  They say keep it out of the rough.  PETER SENIOR: But the course is in great shape.  It's a good test of golf and, you know, I think if you play well you get rewarded  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT