U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Peter Senior
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PETER SENIOR: I finished in an ambulance. Yeah, everything was going all right. I hit a wedge to the right on 11, I hit a good bunker shot out and I missed it from about four or five feet. From then on I never holed another putt coming in. Made a lot of bogies on the back nine from there to the green. So a pretty disappointing way to finish, but, you know, there are some hints of something there.

 Q. Was the dropoff on the back nine for you based on how you played or was it the difficulty of the course? 
 PETER SENIOR: The thing is when you're coming from the fairway, the holes are not really that difficult. You've still got plenty of opportunity to get the ball close. I drove it down most of the fairways and just hit a couple of poor shots coming in.

 Q. You started really strong. You're the only guy to get to 6-under today. What was going so well for you out there? 
 PETER SENIOR: I just hit a lot of good shots on the front nine, holed a couple of good putts, and all of a sudden, you're 6-under. It's easy to drop them out here. The back nine's probably two or three shots tougher from the front, so I got a lot of good par-4s, and if you don't play those well, you're going to shoot a few over.

 Q. Did the course play short? 
 PETER SENIOR: They had the tees up on a few of the par-4s, so we're hitting a little shorter shots in than what we were in the practice rounds.

 Q. When you're making the turn and you're 6-under, what's going through your mind at that point? 
 PETER SENIOR: Had a difficult back nine. I've been hitting the ball pretty well, but I just didn't get it up-and-down. That's what you have to do. On a course like, this you're not going to hit every green, and the four greens I missed I made bogies.

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 PETER SENIOR: Not really, not after being 6-under after 10. You know, if I made par on the last -- I hit a good shot in after a bad lie and just went over the back and chipped it a bit far. 
 If I holed the putt, I would have been pretty happy today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT