NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: WACO
March 24, 2019
Kristine Anigwe
Asha Thomas
Receé Caldwell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kristine, but really any of you guys if you want to chime in, when you look at Baylor, they're the No. 1 team in the nation, yet you guys have a lot of similar pieces as they do.  Do you kind of like that, that they're so highly ranked but you can compare yourselves with them so well?  
KRISTINE ANIGWE: Baylor is a really, really good team, and I don't think we're trying to compare ourselves to them.  I just think we're trying to figure out like what's the best match-up, and I think they're incredibly talented, and I'm excited to play them tomorrow.   
 Q.  Kristine, Lauren and Kalani both talked about how they actually like going against bigger players, that it's really annoying when they have to face the smaller.  Do you enjoy that challenge just facing somebody your size, that kind of thing?  
KRISTINE ANIGWE: Yeah, I enjoy playing basketball, so I enjoy playing if they're bigger than me or if they're the same size as me or they're smaller than me.  It doesn't really matter.  I guess playing against Lauren and Kalani would be really great.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Receé, obviously you were recruited by Baylor, I think at one time committed to them and then played here when you were at Texas Tech.  Do you bring any inside info to your team when it comes to playing Baylor?  
RECEÉ CALDWELL: I'm pretty familiar with Baylor, just being in the Big 12 for three years and being committed to them in eighth grade or whatever grade I was in.  I know a lot of the players.  I know how they play.  I still remember scouting report stuff from like Texas Tech.   
I mean, having a sense of familiarity in who you play is really nice for me, but at the end of the day, it's basketball, you know.   
 Q.  Kristine or Asha, you guys were here a couple years ago; how much different is this team and I guess how much better prepared are you for this challenge?  
KRISTINE ANIGWE: Well, playing Baylor for the second time in my career is really cool because like again, a sense of familiarity with them, so it's like playing against them and Lauren and Kalani, I've played against them, this is my second time, and I have played against them in the past at USA and McDonald's America and like in high school.  It's kind of cool.   
ASHA THOMAS: I would just say this is a whole different team than we had two years ago with new faces and different skill sets than we didn't have two years ago.  So I think it will be a better match-up I would say for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Lauren Cox said just about a half hour ago, she compared you guys to Stanford when asked what team has Baylor played with the size you have.  Would you agree that you and Stanford are similar?  
RECEÉ CALDWELL: I could see that comparison.  Alanna and Kristine, like we have good guard play, we can shoot it.  I think we have similar styles.  Obviously we have differences like every other team has.  I can see the comparison.   
ASHA THOMAS: I would agree with that.   
 Q.  Asha, you hit some big shots yesterday to kind of help keep you guys going in the first half and obviously that's a big part of your game.  When you watch the way Baylor defends the perimeter, that's become a big emphasis of theirs.  What do you see in how they do that?  
ASHA THOMAS: I mean, I know how to score.  I know the ways to score, not only just scoring but finding my teammates who's open, where there's a mismatch or where -- areas that we're capable of scoring at, so we just play basketball.   
 Q.  Asha, what impact or what difference has Receé made in this team, adding another nice piece to this roster?  
ASHA THOMAS: Definitely just her leadership, her overall leadership, being vocal, seeing the floor, her IQ is very high for us, and she sees things two and three steps ahead than maybe I do sometimes.  But she's definitely a big part of who we are right now.   
 Q.  What's the one thing you cannot let Baylor do tomorrow, that you feel like you have to stop?  
ASHA THOMAS: Inside.   
RECEÉ CALDWELL: We have to attack the offensive glass and defensive glass.  I think that's going to be a big part of the game.   
ASHA THOMAS: Inside.   
KRISTINE ANIGWE: I agree with both of them, yeah.   
 Q.  For any of you guys, just kind of on a fun level, when Lauren Cox blocked that pass, that pass in last night, it kind of came to y'all's area where you were watching.  Did that kind of wake anybody up on the bench or was everybody watching pretty close?  What did y'all think about that play?  
KRISTINE ANIGWE: She made a play.  She did what she needed to do.   
ASHA THOMAS: I don't think we took it any other way.  She blocked the ball -- her mindset is blocking the ball and not letting it get in.  That's just her.   
RECEÉ CALDWELL: We've seen Kristine make a lot of those plays, so we're all right.   
 Q.  Kristine, like you said, I think you played with Lauren on one of the USA teams a couple of years ago.  What do you remember about that?  I think you guys won a gold medal at I don't remember what level it was, but you won a gold medal.  What do you remember about that experience?  
KRISTINE ANIGWE: It was definitely incredible playing with her.  She's a really good athlete, a really good player.  She came to a really good university, and they utilize her well, so I think Baylor fits her style of play, and I'm excited to play against her.  I remember her playing volleyball when she was younger, so that play, volleyball play.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT