NHL DRAFT
June 22, 2018
Evan Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you think you're ready for the NHL?
EVAN BOUCHARD: For me, I'm just trying to take it one step at a time.  Enjoy the process.  I know there's a lot of stuff to work on for next season but the goal for me is to go into main camp ready and turn heads from there and go from there.
Q. What is there that you have to work on after three years in London?
EVAN BOUCHARD: I think the game just keeps getting faster at the next level.  So I think skating is something, and you go from playing at the teenagers to men, so I think that's something to get stronger.
Q. Inaudible.
EVAN BOUCHARD: Well, they have all been through the process and they know what it takes to get to that next level.  Dale's coached and really knows how to develop his players and I think that helps a lot.
Q. A lot of people describe you as the best passer in the draft.
EVAN BOUCHARD: Edmonton's got a lot of skill up front and I think that fits well with my game, hit guys with speed, so I think it will be good.
Q. The challenge in London -- loading up every year, but you guys went down a different path and you were one of the leaders on the team.  What was that experience like?
EVAN BOUCHARD: It was different for me but I think it was good experience to really get the feel for it but the coaching staff, management, they did a great job in picking up young talent.
So a lot of people counted us out.  We thought to ourselves, we have nothing to lose here, so making everyone comfortable in the room and everyone wanting to win, I think that helped us a lot.
Q. People describe you as perhaps a John Karlsson.  Is there anything --
EVAN BOUCHARD: Well, he's a great player.  It's a comparison that's a little stretch to get to and it's a lot of work to become the player he is, but you know, it's someone that I enjoy watching for sure.
Q. Shoot more or pass more?
EVAN BOUCHARD: I think shoot more.
Q. Who is here sharing this experience with you in Dallas?
EVAN BOUCHARD: I've got my parents, brother, sisters, aunt, uncle, cousins, grandparents, a few friends and a girlfriend.
Q. Can you describe the day, morning excitement and just building up to your name being called?
EVAN BOUCHARD: Yeah, it was just a lot of excitement.  I was just trying to enjoy the day and enjoy Dallas, go around the city, see some things.  But I think it was just relax, spend time with the family.  I think that's very important.  This is a big event for them, as well as for me.
Q. Your mom and dad, what do they do?
EVAN BOUCHARD: My dad's a lawyer and my mom is an office manager in real estate, Gary and Paula.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT