PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Brian Norman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRIAN NORMAN:   I did get it airborne and somehow in the fairway which was awesome.   I struggled today, but saved the ship on the back nine, which was good.   Had some decent shots.   Short game was pretty good today.   Just need to work on hitting it better tomorrow.

Q.   Overall it was your long game that was off? 
BRIAN NORMAN:   Yeah, there were some squirrelly shots that I hit for sure, but the scrambling was okay. 

Q.   For what you remember of Valhalla, what was your feeling about the way it played today?
BRIAN NORMAN:   Unbelievable, fantastic, great test.   Very fair.   It's an unbelievable facility, golf course, fortunate to be here.

Q.   Talk about the nerves, how bad were they?
BRIAN NORMAN:   They weren't too bad.   When I started hitting them in the water, they got a little worse.   They weren't too bad.   It was good. 
I'm going to learn a lot from this today and go out and try a play a little better tomorrow.

Q.   You had some family there on 18. 
BRIAN NORMAN:   Yeah, it was nice.   I have so much family and friends here and teammates from college.   It's just been awesome.   Kind of a homecoming for me, which has been fantastic this week.

Q.   Have you lived up to the expectations for you after your thoughts of finally getting into a PGA Championship?
BRIAN NORMAN:   Absolutely.   It's been incredible.   Little different than playing in the section events back home for sure.   It's been a great week so far.   Try to play a little better tomorrow.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
BRIAN NORMAN:   I had a good following, which is fantastic.   So many good friends and family and people I haven't seen in years.   It's been really nice.

Q.   The difference out here today versus 2000, when you were watching and really experiencing Tiger Woods, that entire tournament?
BRIAN NORMAN:   I didn't have to hit any shots.   I could just cheer and hang out.   To be here and play this facility, it's unbelievable in a major championship.   I feel very fortunate and blessed to be here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT