ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2018
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by head coach Paul Johnson.
COACH JOHNSON: Good morning.  Looking forward to having a chance to play again this week.  I was proud of the effort of our team last week against Miami.  I think they're a very talented team.  And certainly Virginia's having a great year and playing very well.  So it will be a challenge for our team.  But we're looking forward to having the chance to play again on senior day.
Q. Talk about Perkins, the quarterback from Virginia.  What type of quarterback is he?  What do you have to do to prepare for him, because he can scramble and use his arm as well?
COACH JOHNSON: He's definitely a dual-threat guy.  He's very talented.  I think he's kind of totally transformed their team.  He is very elusive.  He's hard to hem up.  And he's pretty accurate throwing the ball.  So he's a great player.  I don't know that you can completely stop him.  Hopefully we just try to contain him a little bit.
Q. Talk about your seniors.  This is senior day.  What do you like about your seniors, the last four years with this group?
COACH JOHNSON: I think every team when you have the seniors it becomes pretty emotional.  These guys have been part of the family for four or five years.  And regardless of how much they play or don't play or what they do, they all have a contribution they make to the team.  And it kind of hits home to everybody when this day rolls around, that, you know, they're closing in on, for most of them, they're closing in on the end of their football career.
So hopefully we can go out and play well and send them out the right way.
Q. Could you talk a little bit about your decision-making as to when you use your quarterbacks?  And has it varied at all from year to year?
COACH JOHNSON: I mean, most years we just have one quarterback that plays.  This year, because of injury, we've played a couple.  We've got two guys we feel like can run the offense that are pretty good.  And so we just kind of play it by feel.  It's just kind of a feel thing.  If one's playing well, they stay in there.  If not we rotate them a little bit.  We'll probably play both of them on Saturday.
Q. How much of a positive is that, having two guys who can both get if job done for you?
COACH JOHNSON: Well, it certainly gives you a sense of calm.  I think, a lot of guys, if one guy goes down, it can be really crazy.  So with our guys, you know, I think we realize as a team that either one of those guys can go in and play and play well.  So it gives us kind of a sense of there's not as much urgency or not as much fraught if one of them gets hurt.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT