ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 17, 2010
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   COACH JOHNSON: Good morning. We're coming off a rough three-game stretch with our season that did not go as we would have hoped. I thought that Miami played very well on Saturday, and we dug ourselves a hole and could never get out. 
 Looking forward to having a chance to play again. I think it's our last conference game to get back to .500 in the league. 
 I think Duke is probably playing their best football of the year. They've won two of the last three games. You turn the tape on and David does a great job scheme-wise. They're flying around, they're playing hard. So we've got to get ready to play better than we've played the last couple of weeks.

 Q. They played two other option teams this year. They played a Navy team with a similar offense to yours and did a very good job of stopping the option though they got burned by the pass a little bit. Who had the advantage in that case? They were talking about the fact that you've been looking at their defense on film and see how they have played the option. On the other hand, they're pretty familiar with it, so how does that break down? 
 COACH JOHNSON: I don't think it makes a whole lot of difference. They've played the same. There are only so many ways you can play. It's more about execution and that kind of thing. 
 We'd have a pretty good idea how they were going to play, I think, whether they played Navy or not. And they know what we're going to do whether they played Navy or not. We've played each other enough. I don't know that anybody has an advantage in that situation.

 Q. The other thing is they're running a two-quarterback system a little bit. Renfree played 80% of the time and is the passer, and they bring in the Connette kid for the run. What kind of problems does that present and how do you deal with that? 
 COACH JOHNSON: It gives them good balance. The Connette kid's very capable of throwing the ball, and Renfree's capable of running. I think it helps them running the football the prior to years. They've struggle to run the ball very well, and that package helps them run the ball a little better than they have. So it makes it tougher on the defense.

 Q. Do you have to have your guys really aware of whether 18 or 19 is in the game? 
 COACH JOHNSON: We'll be aware, but they can still do the same things. But, yeah, you need to be aware of which guy's in there, for sure.

 Q. Now that Tevin has had a start under his belt, what are the ways that you look for him to improve this week?
 COACH JOHNSON: Looking for him to be more consistent. He actually played fairly well other than turning the ball over at the end of the game. If everybody around him had played as well as he did, we would have been fine. 
 But this will be a different challenge for him. We had a pretty good beat on the last play what they were doing. From his standpoint, we had it very simple for him. He's going to have to take on a little bigger role this week.

 Q. What are the things you really like about him and what he brings to the position? 
 COACH JOHNSON: Well, I think he stays relatively calm. He doesn't get too up or down. He can probably do whatever we ask him to do. He can throw the ball a little bit. He's not got a rocket arm, but he's fairly accurate. He can be a runner. He can break a tackle every now and then. He's not going to be a speed merchant, but just manages the game. He's got a good knack for that, I think.

 Q. I was wondering what you could tell us about Chris Jackson being dismissed from the team? 
 COACH JOHNSON: He just got dismissed from the team for breaking team rules.

 Q. Can you tell us what that might have been? 
 COACH JOHNSON: It wasn't anything major. It was just a conglomeration of things. He and I just didn't see eye to eye. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT