ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2018
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Georgia Tech head coach Paul Johnson.   
Coach, please give us an opening statement and then we'll take questions.   
PAUL JOHNSON: We're glad to be back home here on Saturday night.  Fortunately we found a way to finish off the game last week in Chapel Hill.  We know we'll have to play a lot better against a very talented Miami team here on Saturday.   
 Q.  Three straight foes now you've held under 30 points.  What has been the thing you've liked most about your defense the last three games?  
PAUL JOHNSON: We got some turnovers.  I'm not sure 30 points is a good goal to have.  We'd like to hold them less than that.  Certainly when it came crunch time last week, our defense came up with a couple of big turnovers to help us regain momentum and win the game.   
I think it continues to be a work in progress on defense.  Hopefully we'll play well this week.  Certainly we'll need to to have a chance to win the game.   
 Q.  A basic goal for every program is to get to the conference championship game.  When that goal isn't realized, do you have a problem getting your players motivated or focused for practice?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Well, I don't know.  I mean, most of the people in our division still have a chance, so...  While it might not be in your control, I think all you do is get ready for the next game and continue to play.  You only get to play a certain number of limited games now.  You spend the whole year getting ready.  So you would hope that guys would enjoy playing games and would show up and play.   
We haven't had a problem with that ourselves.  Hopefully we won't.   
 Q.  Talk about preparing for Miami quarterback, because they don't know who will be quarterback?  What do you have to do to get ready for that Saturday?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Well, you just get ready for the system.  I think you don't necessarily try to focus on players.  We don't do a whole lot of that anyway.  We try to get ready for what they do in the system.   
They're both talented kids.  Whichever one plays, they'll have a lot of talented people around them.  You try to get ready for what Miami does.   
 Q.  You had them on the ropes in South Florida before the big rainstorm.  Do you feel like your players are more focused this week to finish the job?  
PAUL JOHNSON: I don't know.  I mean, last year was last year.  We've played some really close games with them.  They're so good on defense that what you can't do is turn the ball over and give them a short field and easy scoring opportunities.   
We'll have our work cut out for us this week, but we're looking forward to having a chance to line up and play.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT