ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 20, 2017
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL JOHNSON: Good morning.  We're excited to be opening the ACC play this weekend and against a Pitt team that we have had some really great games with the past two years but come up short.   
So we've got a lot of respect for what Pat and his staff do and for their football team and looking forward to a good game here on Saturday.   
 Q.  Which NCAA rule would you most like to see changed if you had the power?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Are you talking about recruiting?   
 Q.  Anything.  Anything you want, even on the field.  
PAUL JOHNSON: I would probably change the -- gosh, I don't know.  That's a good question.  I hadn't thought about it.  I don't know.  You know, it would probably have something to do with recruiting.  I'd have to sit down and think about it.   
 Q.  How has the team handled what is probably an extra bye week in terms of getting healthy and how they look in practice?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Well, I think it's been good physically.  We've gotten some guys back healthy.  We only practiced a couple of days that week because we only found out Monday afternoon that we weren't playing, and so we just went through the Jax State game and got that behind us on Monday and went Tuesday and Wednesday and gave them a long week off.   
Physically we're good.  On Saturday we'll see how we handled missing the game experience and the reps that you would get in the game.  We've still got a pretty young team.  I think we've got two seniors on offense that play, and got a few more on defense but we'll see how it goes on Saturday.   
 Q.  Are you expecting any of the guys who missed the last game back?  
PAUL JOHNSON: We should have most everybody available except for the guys that have been out long term.  You know, our long-term guys are still out but everybody else should be good.   
 Q.  With Jordan Whitehead coming back for Pitt, how different of an offense did you expect to see from the one you watched from tape of the first three games this season?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Well, I don't think scheme-wise it's going to be any different.  Certainly he's a good player and he brings another quality athlete on the field for them.   
But you know, from what they do schematically, that's not going to change anything.  He'll either be a boundary safety or a field safety.  You know, he's a good player.  He's played against us a couple years, so we know what he can do.   
 Q.  I was wondering, what have you seen from Anree Saint-Amour in the first couple games?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Well, he's been a guy that's created some negative plays for us.  You know, he's been one of our better guys in the pass rush and had a couple tackles for loss, so he's an explosive guy.   
Hopefully he can continue to improve on assignments and responsibilities but when he's out there, he brings a good athlete that's very explosive coming off the line to the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT