ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2018
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL JOHNSON: Good morning.  Certainly we're getting ready to travel up to Blacksburg this afternoon, and as we all know, that's a difficult place to play.  They are off to a great start in the ACC at 3-0, so we have a tremendous challenge before us.  Looking forward to going up and playing the game on national TV and seeing if we can play a little better than we did last week.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask you about Ricky Walker for them on their defensive line.  He doesn't have some of the statistics he's put up in past years, but their coaches seem to be pretty happy with how he's playing.  What do you see from Ricky Walker?  
PAUL JOHNSON: He's a tremendous player.  I think that clearly he's one of the better defensive linemen in our league, and he plays with a great motor.  He's strong, quick.  He's creative.  He's played very well for them.  He's quite possibly, if not the best, he's certainly one of the best players on the defense.   
 Q.  Their defensive line line coach was talking about how important it is to get good play from that position against your offense.  What is it that your offense does to stress that position?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Well, you know, they played him all over the place:  He's played zero nose, he's been a two-eye, he's done the three-technique.  I guess he's talking about inside.  I don't know where they are going to play him tomorrow night.  But he's a good player wherever he plays.   
 Q.  I know you've had some questions about injuries at this point.  Curious if that's cleared up at all?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Yeah, it was cleared up earlier in the week.  I think that everybody is available to play.  I can't think of anybody who has been out.   
 Q.  So TaQuon is available?  
PAUL JOHNSON: Yeah, he's been cleared.   
 Q.  Will he start?  
PAUL JOHNSON: I don't know, why wouldn't he?   
 Q.  I heard some different things.  Just wanted to make sure.  
PAUL JOHNSON: You know what, my dad used to tell me, be careful, don't believe anything you hear and half of what you see, and you might be all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT