ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 14, 2016
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH JOHNSON: Good morning.  Looking forward to having a chance to play again at home this Saturday against a quality opponent from the SEC in Vanderbilt.  I know historically for the last few years anyway they've been really good defensively.  This year they've got a tremendous tailback, are running the football with a lot of efficiency.
It will be a big challenge, but we're looking forward to having the opportunity to play.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Kind of assess backup quarterback Matthew Jordan when Justin came out.  What did you take away from him?
COACH JOHNSON: I thought Matthew played well.  He came in and executed what we asked him to do.  He's been in the program now for a couple years.  I think he's got a good working knowledge of the offense.  It was good to get him some time out there playing.
Q. As far as Justin bouncing back, is the expectation to have him back full go for this game?
COACH JOHNSON: Yeah, he should be good to go.  He's practiced all week.  He's fine.  He could have played on Saturday.
Q. When I look at your rushing numbers, they're very good.  240 something yards a game, 5 yards a play.  You've had a lot of offenses that did better.  Is there potential for this running game to get even more efficient than it's been so far?
COACH JOHNSON: I think it will get better.  They're pulled down by the first game.  Boston College I think is pretty good on defense.  It would not surprise me to have more rushing yards against them than anybody else they play all year.
They played well.  I'm not sure we played particularly well.  They're really good.  You're talking about two games.  If it's at that number after we play six, then I'll be a little more concerned.
Q. Can you talk about Ralph Webb.  He was effective last week.
COACH JOHNSON: He's a physical runner, downhill.  He's going to get the ball repeatedly.  They got a big, experienced offensive line, play with a lot of 12 personnel, a lot of 22.  Got some big bodies out there.  It will be a challenge.  We got to try to limit him.  I don't know that you're going to stop him, but we need to try to limit him, hope he doesn't gain 200 yards this week like he did last week.
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for being with us.
COACH JOHNSON: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT