ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2013
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH JOHNSON:   We're in the process of having a meeting and walk through it.   And then we go to Clemson.   We're looking forward to it.   It's a great opportunity and a huge challenge.   Certainly they've got a really good football team.   And hopefully we can go in and be competitive. 

Q.   When you played them last year, Hopkins was the guy that had the big game and gave you a lot of trouble.   It looked like Sammy Watkins this year is playing again like he did as a freshman.   Can you talk about problems he presents and what you see from him?
COACH JOHNSON:   Well, he's a really good player and an experienced quarterback.   He's had a lot of yards after the catch.   That's where he's as dangerous as anything.   He's very good with the ball in his hands.   And they're making a concerted effort to get him the ball, there's no question about that. 

Q.   Can you talk about what their running game looks like now with McDowell and their other guys?
COACH JOHNSON:   McDowell is a good player, and I think they try to run the ball and have balance.   It's pretty simple, if you load up on the pass part they're going to run the ball, and vice versa, like everyone else.   But he's also a good player, and I think he gives them that option in the running game.   They're not afraid of handing him the balm.   He's a good player. 

Q.   What's going to be the biggest thing you need to do to try to slow down the Clemson offense, or is it a question of keeping them off the field with the option game of yours? 
COACH JOHNSON:   I think it's all of the above.   This game is no different than any other game.   You've got to be able to stop the run and get pressure on the quarterback when he throws the ball.   And hopefully you can convert some on third down offensively and shorten the game.   They're used to 18 possessions in the game.   If we play correctly, maybe it might be 12.   It's a team effort that way.   So that's how we've got to play. 

Q.   This being your last ACC game, has there been any talk well the players about still staying alive in the coastal with a win here?
COACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, our players are pretty smart, they understand if we win Thursday night we'll be 6 and 2, and we'll be through.   There's nobody else on there that has less than two losses, so the worst we can do is be tied.   So they're aware of that.

Q.   How much is that going to serve as extra motivation going into the game? 
COACH JOHNSON:   I think our guys will be is motivated.   It's a rivalry game.   It's a national game on ESPN.   I think they have a great team, and that's a far bigger motivating factor than us being motivated.

Q.   Obviously defense will face a terrific test from Clemson's offense.   That's been an area where you've really improved this year.   Who are the guys that have made the difference defensively this year from last year? 
COACH JOHNSON:   I think we've got a group of seniors over there that have played a lot.   And I think clearly the competition level is going to rise a lot Thursday night.   We haven't played an offense with all the weapons that Clemson has in the last few weeks.   I think Jeremiah Attaochu has played well; he's elevated his game.   Jemea Thomas has played really well.   Euclid Cummings, Emanuel (indiscernible) in spots, Brandon Watts, all those guys, Quashaun Neely had a big game in there.   It's been a group of guys.   They've played well as a group. 

Q.   When I look over your scores, and what you've done, you had a little blip in early October where Miami and BYU put some points on you.   But other than that the defense has been pretty salt I.   I wonder, was it a level of competition those weeks or was there a breakdown? 
COACH JOHNSON:   Usually that has a lot to do with it.   That's two of the better offenses we played, without question.   I think we've gotten better.   When we played Miami early in the year and they had all their players they were pretty sporty. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT