ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2018
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL JOHNSON: Well, this is our first time playing a school from Ohio, playing Bowling Green.  We're excited to have a chance to get back on the field and play again, and looking forward to the game on Saturday.
Q. What's the biggest challenge that playing in the ACC has that's unique that the other Power Five conferences don't have to deal with?
PAUL JOHNSON: You know, I don't know what the other conferences have to deal with, but for the last few years, I think that the league has gotten better.  You know, there's a lot of parity.  Maybe not -- Clemson right now is really, really good, but I think after that, you take most of the other teams, and on a given day, everybody has a chance to beat everybody.
It's tough sledding; there are no easy games.
Q. Obviously it's been a rough September for you guys.  Did you kind of privately see this coming?  Were there some things in the preseason that you thought the potential was there for some trouble spots as far as certain weaknesses on your team or concerns on your team?
PAUL JOHNSON: No, not really.  I think that starting in the second game at South Florida, who has a pretty good team, we kind of self-destructed in special teams and gave up two kick returns and didn't play very well on defense.
And then we go up to Pitt on the road and just no-show on offense for a half and dug ourselves a hole we couldn't get out of.
And then Clemson has got a pretty good team.  They're going to boat-race a lot of people.
Q. Do you see some signs that you're on the verge of kind of turning things around and putting some W's together?
PAUL JOHNSON: Certainly I think that most of the games we have left on our schedule we have a chance to win and compete, be very competitive in.  Yeah, we're one third through, and all the teams who have played a little easier schedule and got a great record, congratulations to them, but we're a third through.  I wouldn't read too much into it right now.
Q. Tonight on my show we're talking to a DB, Gregory, from Bowling Green.  He's from Baltimore.  What do you see from him on film, and how good is that player?
PAUL JOHNSON: Well, I think, like all the teams, they have some guys that are talented, good players.  Almost every team in college football does.  They've gotten off to a slow start, as well, but it's been -- most of the teams have rushed the ball against them more than thrown it against them, so it would be really hard for me to evaluate him in that aspect.
Q. Do you have any crossover tape for Bowling Green to get ready for a team that you've never played before?
PAUL JOHNSON: Well, we've got all their tapes.  It's the regular film exchange like you'd have with anybody, so we have all their games, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT