ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 4, 2013
Paul Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  PAUL JOHNSON:   Good morning.   Well, like you said, we have a bye this week, which is the second week of the season, and we would have loved to have continued to have kept playing, but the schedule is kind of what it is. 
We took a couple of days off.   We'll start back practice today and get ready to go up to Durham and play a game with Duke that's been really close the last few years.   I think that we've managed to win most of the games, but some of them have gone right down to the end. 
I know that Duke looks like a much improved team just watching their first game, and we've got a lot of areas that we need to correct and get better at.   Now is a good time to start on that, I guess. 

Q.   In a game that was so lopsided, I assume you got to look at a lot of people.   Can you talk about that aspect of a game where you dominate that much that you get to look at every player that you want to? 
PAUL JOHNSON:   Well, it's good for morale.   Clearly we played everybody who had any eligibility that could play that wasn't red‑shirting.   That's always good for morale and good for those kind of things.   You know, you hope that the kids who haven't played much can kind of grow from it. 

Q.   Is it, though, because it's not really a real competitive situation, is it hard to evaluate some of those borderline guys based on their play in a game like that? 
PAUL JOHNSON:   Well, I think that you're always‑‑ there's ways that you can evaluate the guys, and clearly the game got out of hand.   No matter who you play, they'll have some decent players.   The evaluation part of it was not that hard. 
As I said before that game, a big part of that thing was about Georgia Tech.   It's as much about what we did as what Elon was able to do.   We came out of it with some things that clearly we have to work on that we weren't very good at, and hopefully we can clean those up before we go play Duke. 

Q.   Can you talk about your running backs?   We've seen David Sims a lot in the past, but some of the other guys that maybe we haven't seen a lot, how they impressed you in the first game? 
PAUL JOHNSON:   Well, Zach Laskey was our leading rusher a year ago, and he only carried the ball three times Saturday.   David did some good things, Broderick Snoddy is a track guy who's really fast that we're trying to work into some things, and then at A‑back we probably played seven or eight guys.   Robby got hot, played a lot; he was a starter a year ago.   Most all of those guys have played.   This is a lot more experienced team than what we've had the last couple years. 

Q.   How did it come about the other day that you used the running clock there in the fourth quarter, and is that a little bit of a detriment to you guys because you have the off week this week and you wanted to get some more plays in? 
PAUL JOHNSON:   Well, the running clock came about, the official came and asked me, said that the coach from Elon had requested that we play with a running clock in the fourth quarter, and that was fine.   I mean, the game was clearly out of hand.   We didn't have a problem doing that. 
I think we got enough guys in, that wasn't an issue at all.   I was happy to do that for them. 

Q.   Have you ever been involved in a game with a running clock like that? 
PAUL JOHNSON:   I was in a couple games at Georgia Southern where I think we probably did that, yeah. 

Q.   Can you talk about, you used two quarterbacks.   We've seen Vad before, but can you talk about what your two guys looked like in the game? 
PAUL JOHNSON:   Well, I think Vad did some good things.   He had seven series, and we scored seven touchdowns.   He did some good stuff.   Justin Thomas played two series.   One was the only punt we had in the game, and he scored a touchdown.   And then Timmy Byerly went in and ran out the clock, kept the ball the last five or six minutes just kind of running the clock. 
So they all did some things.   It's hard to read too much into it.   Certainly they've got things they can work on just like everybody else, but it was kind of a screwy game because we scored a couple times on defense, and we actually only ran 60 plays, so there wasn't a lot of reps for guys. 

Q.   I guess I was thinking about Justin.   Did you get enough look at him to‑‑ I heard he had been playing very well in practice. 
PAUL JOHNSON:   We kind of know what he is.   We've watched him practice for two years.   We think he's a good player.   He had about a 40‑ or 50‑yard run where you could see his feet.   First series I think he was a little nervous.   He went in and missed a read or two.   But after that he was‑‑ in the next series he played well. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT