NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Tom Ryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Coach, you want to talk about tonight's matches?   
TOM RYAN: I want to focus on the three, the two seniors, Micah and Joey that earned a right to wrestle for a national championship, Kollin Moore, also wrestling for a national championship.  But my mind keeps going to the wayward son, the one that just strayed away and is in so much pain.  That's where my mind is.  Myles to lose the way he lost last year in the finals and be such a great leader, Ohio State, and to be a great example for so many people there.  That's the one my mind is focused on right now.  That will be for a little while and tomorrow we will get ready and hopefully see three young men reach a life-long dream and that's to win a national championship.   
 Q.  Tom, you're a disciple of Dan Gable.  He used to think more about the guys that lose more than the guys that win.  Talk about how you overcome that and doesn't that prove that it's an individual sport more than a team sport?  
TOM RYAN: It's both, it's obviously both.  It's just that, it's just life and you gotta trust God's plan.  It's hard to see his plan in this, how one of the most dominant wrestlers I've coached, I've seen can lose a match like that and credit to Dean.  He did exactly what he needed to do to win the match, but it's sometimes there is no answer in the immediate moment.  Sometimes you are going through the pain but it is more the good and at some point in his life he will see what that is but right now I'm sure he's going to have a hard time finding that.   
 Q.  Tom, you speak about Myles, but the way Kollin came back he almost seemed to be wrestling for two individuals, himself and his teammate before him?  
TOM RYAN: I agree, completely.  There was a look in Kollin's eye that we needed to see in the semifinals.  He fell short as a freshman in a match that was winnable, I think it was the quarters last year he fell short and I think seeing that, I think it galvanized him a bit.  It galvanized his thoughts and how hard this is, that there is no guarantee.  There is no guarantee in any of this.  We saw Nolf, kid with a leg in the air.  We almost saw Nolf lose and we saw another elite wrestler get beat.  I definitely think it had an impact on Kollin.  He wrestled extremely hard tonight.   
 Q.  Talk about Joey?  This guy chose to come to your school because he thought it would be the place where he could get better in wrestling, achieve his dreams and do the things he thought he was capable of and now he's going to get a chance tomorrow.  
TOM RYAN: Couldn't be happier for Joe.  Joey seeks perfection in every single thing he does he seeks perfection.  He's a 4.0 student.  He seeks perfection in practice and when you see perfection and you put everything on the line, there's some fear that you won't attain the things that you really want and it's good to see Joe and others here take the fear and put it over here and go in and compete and just wrestle.  He's got a big match tomorrow night against obviously another great competitor and Joe is one of the elite wrestlers in college, an elite champion, that's extremely rare.   
So happy for a guy that everything about his life, the way he was raised is if you're going to do it the right way you're going it seek perfection and tonight was good to see Joe get over the hump.  He has had two semifinal losses so let's go tomorrow night, Joe.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT