BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S MEDIA DAYS
October 17, 2012
Chris Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COACH WALKER:   I will say, this our guys are going to come out and play with pride.   And play for the name on the jersey, and in doing that, I think we'll do enough to be competitive in every situation.  
   
 Q.   Chris, congratulations.   First of all, two questions, first is Kyle's play.   He's been around basketball as a player, and a coach, a high school coach.   What style will you play?   Secondly, when you got the shot, who was your first call to?   Who did you call outside of Texas Tech to help you navigate the waters?   
COACH WALKER:   To answer the first part, we're going to play a little more up tempo.   That is my nature and personality.   I like a little more zone, a little more attacking style on turnovers.   It keeps the game moving at a fast pace, two, three pointers, and some more tactical into the game.   
But definitely more possessions to keep the game moving, and keep the guys on their heals on offense and defense.   That is the style that we desire to play.   
We have the personnel, players I think that you can teach them to play that way.   First of all, I've worked with so many guys, that it will be tough to Steve Alford to name a few, John Oliver my first game.   They're all different and had different success.   I'm going to take a little bit of each one of those guys and sprinkle a little of my stuff in there as well and see if we can have a successful season.  
   
 Q.   Nowadays on contracts you're supposed to have a four year deal, but that's not long enough.   What do you want to see?   
COACH WALKER:   It's all about attitude.   I was remarking to somebody the other day there are a lot of interim coaches out there, they just don't know it.   I look at this situation, and people look at it as if I've been diagnosed with cancer.   It took me six months to live.   I've really flipped it and said it's six months to give.   I'm head coach for the first time in the Big 12.   I'm going to give everything I have to the University, to the players and the community of Lubbock.   
At the end of the day, we'll just see what it be.   I'm not worried about wins and losses and all that kind of stuff.   Number one thing I'm focused on is getting Texas Tech players to play Texas Tech basketball and the other Big 12 coaches to get their team to play their style of play.  
   
 Q.   You talked about not wanting to look at the past.   But as a coach you must be aware there are some other things.   How do you go about that moving forward from that point?   
COACH WALKER:   We've already moved forward from that point.   And some things happen in the past that can make you stronger.   We've grown as a group.   Again, it's just a forward thinking mentality.   They're rallying around that.   No one is in Lubbock feeling sorry for us.   I tell the guys all the time that 85% of the people who don't care what's going on, and the other 15% are glad you're going through it.   Those are guys that are playing hard for Texas Tech basketball.   
   
 Q.   Tell us a little bit about your staff and your leadership?   Can you talk about your leadership style?   
COACH WALKER:   I would describe my leadership style from a disciplined standpoint, I use my moral compass in all situations.   I aim before I shoot when it comes to kids, and you realize that the number one thing I need to do more importantly is open their hearts while I open their minds.   I'm really into changing the way they think and really focused on making them the best men, best students, and best athletes they can be by the time they leave Texas Tech, because we are the last line of defense before they go into the real world.   
As far as my staff is concerned, I have a great group of guys.   Could not have gotten to this point without those guys.   I'm the one that you see here today, but those guys have been the wind behind the sails.   Jeremy Cox who was with Coach Gillispie at Texas A&M and Kentucky and in Nebraska.   A very experienced coach, really good recruiter and even a better person.   
Bubba Jennings who is the star of Lubbock.   I tell him all the time he's the most popular man in Lubbock.   He's just a great resource for the guy, awesome player, and the star of Texas Tech and the people of Lubbock, and a host of other guys that have helped us transition to the point where we're really able to pick it up.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
COACH WALKER:   Dejan's doing great.   He's transitioned from junior college.   It's been a whirlwind for him.   He's done a 180.   Has tough family issues he's constantly dealt with.   He's risen above all that stuff and gotten himself to Texas Tech.   Every day is a learning process and a growing process.   He's met every challenge head on, first with Coach Doherty coaching him, and I'm looking forward to him being a major contributor for us this year.  
   
 Q.   I wonder if you can talk about trying to build a program in this conference?   
COACH WALKER:   Great question.   If you walk in, it's intimidating.   Fortunately enough for me I've been in the Big East and worked with great coaches.   Bottom line, this is what it comes down to.   It's me getting my players to play my style of basketball more so than the other guy gets his team to play his style of basketball.   That is my only challenge.   It's not focusing on the accolades of the other coaches.   It's me focusing on what's going on in Lubbock and controlling that narrative.   That's where I'll start and I'll begin.   But at the end of the day get them to play for you, more so than the other guy gets his team to play for him.  
   
 Q.   Based on what you have now and obviously 16 players coming in.   But what do you see as the one thing this team has to do better, whether it's scores, whatever, what do you see the team having to improve in?   
COACH WALKER:   I would say the number one thing we have to improve in is believing that we can win in Lubbock.   That is, it can be accomplished.   I'm watching all the election stuff with the debate last night and you see all the poles and stuff, and you see the poles where Texas Tech is picked.   If you look at that stuff, it could affect the way you do things.   
But in Lubbock right now these guys were so entrenched, focused on being the best they can be.   Coming into the arena, being competitive.   We have this thing where everybody on our staff wears black every single day.   It's to remind ourselves that every time we step on the court, you're on the road.   When you're on the road, you're the most focused, everyone's against you.   We create that in practice every day.   We create great habits that we're in the most difficult situations, and that's what's going to come out.   
So saying that's their mentality every day.   Even today, we're all wearing black.   It's a road mentality, that's what we're going to take on for the season.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT