ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 24, 2020
Nigar Sultana Joty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








India - 142/6, Bangladesh - 124/8
Q. In the last two years, Bangladesh has not played a lot of series against top six, not really any series against top six opposition. How much of that makes an impact on a performance like the World Cup?
NIGAR SULTANA JOTY: Actually, just because we're not in the rank eight, so we could not play much as possible matches against top eight teams and all. But we played many tournaments in our country back home, and even we played some triangle series and even some kind of T20 series as well.
Q. How did you analyze the game today? Seemed like 20 runs too short in terms of you were always trying to play catch-up the whole innings?
NIGAR SULTANA JOTY: I think we did not bowl well in the power plays. They played really well. Shafali Verma absolutely played brilliantly today. Even we missed some chances in the field, and we bowled -- did not bowl well in the last five overs as a result.
Q. I guess from the outside people probably don't expect much from the minnow teams, but when you enter a match like this, what sort of mindset do you take in? Do you go in with a winning mindset where you really believe that you can come away with the win?
NIGAR SULTANA JOTY: We are from a cricket crazy nation, so, yeah, people are expecting from us to win, and we are going also for the win actually.
Q. Nigar, if you could talk about Murshida Khatun's performance. She looked quite impressive, confident up at the top and a very stylish left-hander at that. Your thought on Murshida's performance?
NIGAR SULTANA JOTY: Yeah, Murshida is very young in the team, and she has the potential to play well in the match. She's in good form nowadays, and I think she's going to be our best player in our team.
Q. How has she gelled with the senior players given this is her first World Cup, world tournament? How has she gelled as a youngster?
NIGAR SULTANA JOTY: This is her first World Cup, but she played with the team the last one and a half years. So she's done quite well with us.
Q. Your next match is against Australia, and they've been struggling a little bit. Do you think they are vulnerable at the moment? Do you think there's a chance you could upset them?
NIGAR SULTANA JOTY: We did not play against Australia, so we are going with our plan, and we want to execute our plan in the next match. Though they are the defending champion, but we don't want to think about like that. We just want to take all the positive things from this match, and we want to execute in the next game.
Q. Your thoughts on Veda Krishnamurthy's performance. Her cameo at the end was quite important in the outcome. You've played against her previously as well. Have you seen her evolve over the years? Or have you seen anything different or the same old way, the explosive way that you've seen all your life?
NIGAR SULTANA JOTY: I saw her in Asia Cup. At that time, maybe she could not play well, but today she played really well, and she tried to score as many as possible. I think her role is to play quick rounds for the team. So she did that today.
Q. Rumana Ahmed seems to have been demoted down the order. What has Rumana's comeback into the side been like? She was injured for a while, and she seems to have taken a dip as far as her form is concerned.
NIGAR SULTANA JOTY: Rumana is our best all-rounder in the team. In all, sometimes it happens like as per role, as per the situation sometimes, some heaters are going up in the order. So I think this has happened today. She contribute always with the bat and the ball, and hopefully she's doing well in the next matches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT