RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 16, 1996
Richard May
Patrick Sweeney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What was the problem?  Was your partner choking or something like this?

PATRICK SWEENEY:  No.  Difficulty with return of serve.  That is what happened this morning, I think, more than anything.  That is what I would think --

RICHARD MAY:  Yeah, I mean --

PATRICK SWEENEY:  -- for me. 

RICHARD MAY:  I don't think as a doubles team, you know, if we lose, we lose together.  If we win, we win together.  It is not one of us or the other one. 

Q.  I would think after winning Wimbledon, you wouldn't have to look at instruction manuals in a press conference. 


Q.  It looked to me as if you choked watching that match.  Why did it appear that way to me?

RICHARD MAY:  Have you played?

Q.  Yes, I have.  I played on the circuit many years ago?

CRAIG GABRIEL:  Many, many years ago.  

Q.  You looked like you put in a classic choke there. 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I think that Todd Martin has created the new phrase for that - is it "freezing up?" Is that the Michigan phrase for it.  But Richard said you have to play together and win together, lose together, but if choking is hard to look at that term and follow, you know, onto the next tournament, you have to put it behind you whatever the term is.  That is what we look forward to as a team. 

Q.  It is customary for you to have fist fights during matches?

RICHARD MAY:  Only when playing the other Australian teams.

PATRICK SWEENEY:  That was an aberration.  Just like the loss.  My two doublefaults at the end were just something that usually never happens, but the toss and after the return of serve was just a great deal of difficulty. 

Q.  It is your first year on the circuit.  What is your goal, to become a new Jensen brothers team?

RICHARD MAY:  No.  We hope to have a little bit more substance than they do. 

Q.  How do you think that Luke Jensen will react to that comment?  He thinks he is helping the world of tennis, presenting fun and entertainment; now you are attacking him?

RICHARD MAY:  I am not attacking him.  I think that  there is a place in tennis for that, brings the masses out, but as far as a doubles team, that has -- that can compete week in and week out, I don't think, other than the one French Open victory, that they have had that -- they have had that many good results and it would be -- it would be nice to see other teams that are good teams do things like they do and maybe that will rub off on other players.  It is not an attack on them. 

Q.  How difficult is that balance to achieve?

RICHARD MAY:  Agassi does it pretty well.

Q.  In doubles, two different personality --

RICHARD MAY:  I think in doubles the problem is that they are never on TV or they are not shown as much so they don't have the opportunities.  Only the big -- only the tennis fan out there that knows a lot about tennis really follows doubles; not the masses and that is what the Jensen brothers have probably done is got the masses to attend doubles matches, but if they are not on the court, you can put the top two doubles team on the court, you are not going to get the same number of fans out there as if you put the Jensens out there and it doesn't matter who they are playing. 

Q.  Just away from the topic of today's loss, Agassi performance a couple of nights ago during -- and the subsequent default, what were your thoughts on that?  Do you think that things went a bit too far and the ATP supervisor should have  just given him the point penalty or what?  Because when he came in over here he said he picked up a couple of the pointers from watching one of your doubles matches. 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  He could always pick up a few pointers from Richard.  Myself, the rules have to be followed by everyone and as long as they are consistently enforced for all the players, then I think everyone accepts them.  But we were waiting for our doubles match afterwards and saw that.  I thought that was the right thing to do to call the referee.  At least the umpire did that before he did anything.  And then the referee, that is his job, to make a final decision what the rules are.  I think that was good that the umpire did that.  To pick up what Richard was saying earlier, it would be nice if they had one or two doubles tournaments that didn't have any singles matches; try and showcase doubles, maybe one or two tournaments a year and just see what the results are.  Maybe there would be more interest in doubles and there could be -- some of the players could put more entertainment and substance into the doubles game because it is a fun game to watch and it is fun for people and more people play doubles or as many people play doubles as singles.  That would be a fun thing to do.  Maybe with a doubles and a mixed doubles tournament just showcase just two of them; try and see what the  results are.

Q.  You are going completely against what the organization you are in partnership with, the ATP Tour, which wants to -- does not want to separate the two types of tennis, singles and doubles.  They want to keep it all together. 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  Well, they have the championship separate.  I think they moved it to Connecticut this year?

RICHARD MAY:  Hartford.

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I think they have separated it for that purpose and they should separate it during the year once or twice just to see what the results are; see what kind of interest can be generated in the game.  It is a very fast exciting game, actually.  I think it would get a lot of interest in it.  I think there is more action in doubles most of the time than it is in singles; more exciting points.

RICHARD MAY:  I think the ATP has problem in doubles in promoting doubles different than the women's Tour where the top players play; you don't see the top men's players playing doubles.  Maybe by separating some tournaments, you will get some of the top -- you will get Sampras playing doubles.  I don't know.  He may play one doubles tournament a year, I mean, the fans would be more -- I think they would find the doubles more interesting if the top players were in it.

Q.  You guys are on the decline in your doubles.  You seem  to have some good ideas; maybe you should give up the circuit and start working for them.  You have some good ideas. 

RICHARD MAY:  You only have been out for one year.

PATRICK SWEENEY:  Right.  Maybe I will just give up this and go strictly to a singles career, but I will have to wait until the end of the season.  I want to win the Championship in Hartford with Richard.

Q.  The ATP Tour has a habit of picking up former players as their personnel.  I mean, don't you want to work with them.


Q.  Ones that didn't do much. 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I want to win the Championship in Hartford this year.  That is my goal; then I will reevaluate at the end of the season if I will do that.  Then I will be happy.

Q.  Were you guys satisfied with the fact that the ATP Tour actually cut your prize money with the doubles championship because when the announcement was made, Hartford was almost 50% less than a bid that had come in from Macau in the Far East?

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I don't agree with that at all.  I think that is totally wrong.  I don't mind going to Macau and playing.  They can tape delay back if they want to put it on TV.  I don't know what Richard thinks about it.  We don't talk about it that much.

RICHARD MAY:  Actually, I think the prize money is  still good and the opportunity for endorsements and stuff will be better if it is in the United States.  It can generate interest here.

Q.  This might be the reason you guys aren't such good partners, you can't even agree about these kind of things.  Have you thought about that?

RICHARD MAY:  I didn't realize that money was so important.

Q.  Do you communicate with each other effectively during the match?

PATRICK SWEENEY:  Today we did.  We did at Wimbledon, fortunately, and then I don't know, we will have to talk about that after the match.

Q.  Do you routinely talk about year performance after the match and figure out what you did right and what you did wrong or do you just blow it off and take off to the next place?

RICHARD MAY:  We don't talk much about it. 

Q.  That is an indicator of your success, I guess. 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  Maybe we are heading towards the Jensens thing.  Maybe we should look for different endorsements, Richard.

RICHARD MAY:  They talk to each a lot, I am sure.

PATRICK SWEENEY:  We want more substance; less flash.  We want results, but I think we have communicated enough to be successful up to this time. 

Q.  Who are the companies that you are endorsing?  I am having a hard time noticing. 

RICHARD MAY:  Reebok, and Nike at the same time.

Q.  That is an interesting arrangement.  Can you explain how you managed to being a Reebok and Nike player?  It is fascinating to me. 

RICHARD MAY:  You have to wear a shirt and shorts and shoes. 

SANDY HARWITT:  It is his transvestite -- when he plays as a woman he wears -- (LAUGHTER)

Q.  I noticed when you were on the court today that, Richard, you seemed distracted.  Was there something on your mind?  I mean, you didn't seem to be into the match.  I think it was the blonde in the front row.  Is that right, a blonde in the front row that you were watching?

RICHARD MAY:  I didn't notice. 

Q.  You didn't notice whether there was a blonde in the front row or you didn't notice you were distracted or both?

RICHARD MAY:  Any time during the year there are matches when you are not in it as much as other matches.  This was not a match where I was just comfortable or as focused as I have been in other matches.

Q.  This is your first time to play in Indianapolis.  What is your impression of the facility, of the tournament?

RICHARD MAY:  It is a nice facility.  It is quieter  here.  It seems more friendly.  The fans seem friendlier.  It is not as obviously as formal as Wimbledon or as loud and obnoxious as New York, but I think for the players it is a good place to go.

Q.  Of the four Grand Slams which is your favorite?

RICHARD MAY:  Wimbledon. 

Q.  Any order from there?

RICHARD MAY:  Probably U.S. Open being American.

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I think the Australian is the nicest, the friendliest and the French because of the city.  Wimbledon is too stuff fee.  I don't like the U.S. Open.

RICHARD MAY:  We won there.

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I know, but that is okay.  Australia is beautiful.

Q.  In the Australian, do you plan to play the mixed doubles as well?

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I am trying to work on that blonde, but I don't know if she plays tennis.  I hope the weather is nice.  That is the important thing at the U.S. Open.  Too hot. 

JUDY BURNETT:  Any other questions?

Q.  You are in favor of double tournaments.  Will you include mixed doubles as well in these double tournaments with maybe some good looking players or -- 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I really think if they tried two tournaments a year where they had mixed doubles and doubles, it would be good - one or two and try it.  The WTA Tour had one tournament they did in Florida and I think that if they are going to have the doubles tournament final separate this year, they should have some doubles tournament just to see -- as Richard says, they make some of the other top players, that won't interfere with their singles, to play in it.

Q.  How are you going to pay for a tournament like that?  Because the sponsorship dollars are not going to be there and you have acknowledged that the fans don't come out to watch doubles, so how can that idea be possibly work?  How are you going to pay for it?

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I think number one, it will be unique.  It will get some immediate attention.  Two, especially if they played it on a little slower surface, I think it would be fun for everyone.  I think it would be successful.  Richard is working on these bi, tri, endorsement things.  I think he can put it together as a second career. 

RICHARD MAY:  It has been successful in the past before.  I mean, there was a series of tournaments in Houston which was just a mixed doubles tournament and you are going to bring in some named players and with a -- what they did was  bring in Evert and Connors and put them together and there is no reason why Connors can't come back and play and Martina can come back and play in these tournaments; doesn't have to be --

Q.  Do you know how much money Jimmy wants when he plays in his senior tournaments?

RICHARD MAY:  If he brings that many fans to the stadium, I am sure you can -- I am sure that the people will pay to go out and watch him play.

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I think you can get interest if you have a 16 team draw, you know, Thursday, Friday Saturday or Friday, Saturday, Sunday, a short tournament, don't have to have a week long tournament with Richard and our team alone will turn out fans.

RICHARD MAY:  Oh, yeah. 

Q.  Who would you pick as mixed doubles partners?

RICHARD MAY:  As our partners?

Q.  Yes. 

RICHARD MAY:  I know who you want.  I am trying to think of somebody else.  Maybe Mary Joe Fernandez or Gigi Fernandez, one of the American doubles players.

PATRICK SWEENEY:  I would like Steffi Graf.  I'd like to play with her.  I think the best doubles players in the world are Mary Joe and Gigi.  It is a different game.

Q.  Gigi just likes playing women's doubles. 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  Exactly.  She doesn't play mixed.   No comment.  No French -- no Spanish journalist here.  No Puerto Rican journalists.  That is the bad thing, is that singles has become really -- it really is -- it distracts.  It is unfair to the top players because they can't take the time to play doubles.  It would help some of their games, that is why you primarily have baseliners.  They don't go to the net anymore because they don't have to.  Doubles, you have to.  One person that really changed the game is Arantxa Sanchez Vicario.  Her game went up three or four levels by playing doubles. 

Q.  Wouldn't you be concerned taking on somebody like Gigi because her partners are having problems.  She is not so easy to get along with. 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  Trouble with Billie Jean King, yeah.

Q.  Natasha has said she might not be playing with her again. 

PATRICK SWEENEY:  Richard is the kind of guy that can deal with that.  You have dealt with me.  (LAUGHTER).

RICHARD MAY:  Most of her problem generate from starting to lose. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT