US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Steve Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you ever wonder about the draws at the US Open?

STEVE CAMPBELL: What do you mean?

Q. Well, I mean, this is your second trip here.

STEVE CAMPBELL: Yeah.

Q. You played Wilander last time, Agassi this time. Would you like to get a qualifier
yourself?

STEVE CAMPBELL: That would be nice. I like to play the big matches, play on the big
courts. It's a lot of fun. The crowd always gets into it. It's a different experience for
me, playing mostly Challengers all throughout the year. I don't mind playing the big
names.

Q. What was it like those first two sets, pretty deep hole?

STEVE CAMPBELL: He was just returning so well. He just totally took my serve away from
me. The harder I served, the harder he hit the return back. So I just tried to make some
adjustments in the third set, tried to mix up speeds on my serves. That started to work a
bit.

Q. You've never played him before? 

STEVE CAMPBELL: No.

Q. When he's on, he's known as the best returner in the game.

STEVE CAMPBELL: He was the first two sets. It was ridiculous.

Q. How did you get back into it?

STEVE CAMPBELL: Just mixing up my shots a little more because, I mean, when your serve
is taken away from you, you don't have a chance. Just mixing up my serves, getting in more
points that way by mixing up my serves. Once I got into the points more, I started
loosening up, crowd got behind me. Started feeling looser out there.

Q. Can you talk a little about that seventh game of the fourth set?

STEVE CAMPBELL: When he was serving?

Q. Yes.

STEVE CAMPBELL: Was it seventh game? Yeah, it was. I think I had a double breakpoint. I
don't know what happened with the first one. I think he played a pretty good point the
first one. Second one I had a second serve and I wanted to attack it. I was just a little
bit early on the return. I'm never really unhappy if I'm going for my shots. I went for it
and I missed, so I'm not unhappy with that.

Q. Once you got rolling and the crowd did get behind you, did that kind of catch you by
surprise a little bit?

STEVE CAMPBELL: No. I mean, the New York crowd always wants to see more tennis. I
pretty much could count on that. I mean, it was like I was entertaining them and they were
entertaining me right back. It was a lot of fun out there.

Q. What did Andre say to you right at the end?

STEVE CAMPBELL: Can't remember.

Q. Touched your earring.

STEVE CAMPBELL: Oh, yeah. He said something about my earring being pretty big. I said
something about he probably needed to get one that big, but he might not be able to handle
it, something like that.

Q. Did you say anything about his shirt?

STEVE CAMPBELL: No. I'm not going to say anything about his shirt.

Q. What is your take on the kinds of, call it what you want, criticism or commentary
people have made --

STEVE CAMPBELL: What did you say, I'm sorry?

Q. What is your take on the criticism that Andre has taken recently through the injury
and people thinking that he had, again, lost the commitment? Do you think that was
overstated?

STEVE CAMPBELL: I think so. I mean, it's a tough life on The Tour. I don't think people
respect that as much as they should. We go through injury problems, mood swings. Sometimes
you just don't feel like playing. For him to totally be in the spotlight like that all the
time isn't fair. If he wants to take three months off, he should be able to take three
months off. No one should say anything, that's his prerogative. I think a lot of people
are too critical of tennis players. It's a long year. There's no breaks. I mean, a lot of
times I get burned out, I just want to put the racquet down for a while. You put the
racquets down, you slip in the ranking. It's tough.

Q. Something happened early in the match. I saw him throw his racquet. He was
approaching the umpire. Do you remember anything like that? Was it a call or something?
Looked like your shot was clearly good.

STEVE CAMPBELL: Only time I remember him throwing his racquet early, I thought he was
just joking. I thought he was just joking. I'm not sure.

Q. What do you take out of a match like this tonight? Do you feel good about it?

STEVE CAMPBELL: I feel okay. I don't feel great. I think there's some things I could
have done better in terms of going for some of my shots more early instead of letting him
dictate. But, I mean, every match you have to learn from. I mean, anytime I can play on a
big court with a big crowd, it's going to be better for me. Next time I might do a little
better. Always something you can take from a match.

Q. Do you think his game is at a level where he can win?

STEVE CAMPBELL: If he returns like he did in the first couple of sets, then he can. I
mean, it's up to him, you know, so. But, I mean, there's a draw full of great players.

Q. Is his serve kind of far behind where it's been at its best?

STEVE CAMPBELL: It's kind of hard for me to say because I've never really faced it
before. It's hard for me to say.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT