NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: SHARKS v PENGUINS
June 3, 2016
Matt Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Matt, last couple days there's been a lot written comparing you and Ken Dryden, just from the situation. Any thoughts on that?   
MATT MURRAY: No. There's no comparison, I don't think, to Ken Dryden. Makes me pretty uncomfortable actually to hear that.   
No, I don't know how to answer that.   
   
 Q. It's a 5:00 start, which regardless of which coast or time zone or venue, kind of a strange start. What does that do as far as routines that you might have on a normal game day?  
MATT MURRAY: It's all mostly the same. You probably won't skate in the morning. During the season we play a lot of afternoon games. I played a lot of 5:00 games in the American League on Sundays and stuff like that.   
Shouldn't be too big of an adjustment.   
   
 Q. I saw a lot of predictions before the series, one where 17 writers picked the Sharks. When you hear about things like that, is that the kind of external motivation that this team uses at all?   
MATT MURRAY: I don't know if we really need any external motivation. We're motivated from within, I think. We just want to win like everybody else.   
I know I definitely don't pay attention to any of that noise. I don't think most guys on our team do either. So I wouldn't say that really has any impact.   
   
 Q. Where were you in 2009 when this team won the Stanley Cup? Do you remember watching it at all? Also, how often have you been to California?   
MATT MURRAY: First time ever in California. It seems like hockey is definitely growing. It's not exactly known as a hockey state by any means. You look around the rink here, you see all these kids running around. Everybody is into the hockey thing. It's cool. It's my first time here, so I can't really speak to how it's evolved or anything.   
I love it. I'm not used to the hot weather this time of year. I'm from pretty far up north in Ontario. The hot kind of bugs me a little bit. But I really like it.   
To answer the first part of your question, 2009, I would have been, man, probably a year before I started in the Ontario League, I think. I'm sure I watched it for sure. I would watch every year pretty much. At that point I was probably 14, 15.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
MATT MURRAY: I probably would have been grade 10, 10th grade maybe. Is that right (laughter)? Something like that.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
MATT MURRAY: No firm memory, no. I hadn't even started in junior, I don't think, at that time. I wasn't really taking the hockey thing too seriously at that point, I don't think. But, yeah, I definitely remember it, though.   
   
 Q. Matt, so much talk in these playoffs about your composure and how you're able to keep calm. Is there anything in particular you do that allows you to do that? Are there things that you do that make you keep that composure?  
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, definitely. The biggest thing for me is just kind of focusing on your breathing. I think that brings you back to being in the moment. That's something I do a lot, something I work on a lot. It's something so simple. You think, Can that really have anything to do with it. It definitely helps.   
As soon as you start thinking about too much, you start getting too far ahead of yourself, you kind of come back to that, focus on your breathing, take a deep breath, realize where you are, realize the moment you're in. That's probably the biggest thing that I do, I would say.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Matt.   
MATT MURRAY: Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT