NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: LIGHTNING v PENGUINS
May 24, 2016
Sidney Crosby
Matt Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Pittsburgh – 5
  Tampa Bay – 2

Q. (No microphone)?
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, I think -- yeah, we know the circumstances. I think you go out there with the mindset of playing desperate, and I think it's pretty natural when you're in this situation. I think we have confidence in the whole group, no matter who it needs to be to step up. 
I think everyone played great tonight. Everyone contributes in their own way in a big game like this. You don't have to do anything special. You've just got to do your job. I think that got us this far going into tonight. 
As for Matt, I think he can speak more about it, but he was solid again. It's a big game, and they're coming hard in the third period and put a lot of pressure on us. Even with their lead, he made some big saves for us.

Q. Sid, what does it mean to you to have one game to reach a Stanley Cup final? 
SIDNEY CROSBY: I think that you go through different experiences, and you realize how hard it is to get these kind of opportunities. So if anything, just having an appreciation for how hard it is to get to this point, and as a group, we've been through a lot and want to make the most of this opportunity.

Q. Matt, can you talk about the emotions that go from finding out that you're not going to play in Game 5 and then being told that you are going to play in Game 6? What's that process been like the last 48 hours for you? 
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, that's out of my control, I think. So that's 100 percent of the coach's decision, and he's going to make the decision he thinks is going to give us the best chance to win. It's not my job to worry about his decision. It's my job to be ready if my name is called, and if my name is called, to go out and play my heart out and compete. So, yeah, I'm not really worried about that too much.

Q. Kind of piggy-backing on that, Matt, did sitting out Game 5 do anything as far as mental preparation for this game? Did you need a break? 
MATT MURRAY: I don't know. I don't think it made much of a difference, to be honest. It's just the cards that we're dealt, I guess, and I thought I handled it pretty well. Yeah, like I said, I can't really worry about that stuff. I just have to take things as they come and focus on staying in the moment.

Q. Matt, two-parter for you. The first part, what did it do for you to find out that goal was overturned early? And then the save you made on Callahan about 45 seconds into the second period on that deflection, did that sort of help you out? Was that a big one for you that would help you out and give you confidence too? 
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's always nice when a goal gets overturned, but it was, I'm sure, the right call that was made. So you kind of move past it once a decision is made. 
As for that save in the second period, that was my first real test, I thought. First period was pretty quiet. I think we only had four shots against or something like that. Yeah, I think that was probably a big save just for the timing of it. That was my first real test, I guess.

Q. Sid, Conor Sheary coming off a scratch in Game 5. He had the assist on Kris' goal tonight. What did he give your line tonight? 
SIDNEY CROSBY: Well, speed, that's his biggest thing. That's his game. Like he did on that play, he makes really good plays off the rush in the zone. So made a good play to delay and find Tanger and join the rush, but his biggest strength is his speed. Whether he's generating stuff from the fore-check or hold on to the puck and driving wide, he pushes guys back. That's a big part of our team game, but a big part of his as well.

Q. Sid, can you talk about the mindset when they got the second goal there in the third period and where you guys were at at that point? 
SIDNEY CROSBY: What we're dealing with at that point, you know it's going to be a big surge. You know, you want to defend well, but you don't want to sit back. You know, if anything, you want to try to hold on to the puck, and if you can, score. Try to take advantage of maybe a pinch in "D" and get an odd-man rush, basically like we did. 
You're in that situation, it's 3-2, whatever, 7:30 left, and you've got to find a way to hold them off. It was a huge goal from Rusty. They were definitely coming, and to give us that cushion was big.

Q. Sid, when you get the puck there on your goal in the neutral zone, could you already see that lane developing, or how quickly did that come about? 
SIDNEY CROSBY: Yeah, as soon as I turned with the puck, I could tell they were probably in the middle of coming up the gap. So I had a little bit more space. So I just tried to get some speed off that turnover there that Horny made, and had a lane and just tried to hit it. That's a great play by him. I mean, if he doesn't back-check, it's probably a nothing play, and they're going back the other way. But he gets that turnover and kind of catch them in between there. 






AN: We've sat before, and we tried to define a criteria on what we're going to challenge and what we're not so that we're all on the same page as far as what we're looking for, and if it's really close, and in our mind it's worth the challenge. So we tried to do that as a coaching staff beforehand, just so we can prepare ourselves for those types of situations. 
You know, it's not a perfect scenario, but I think, as long as we're on the same page as far as what that criteria looks like, it makes Sauce's job a lot easier to give us a final decision, yes or no, and that's the calculated risk that you take. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT