NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: PREDATORS VS PENGUINS
May 30, 2017
Matt Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Everything all right physically after last night?  
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, I like to skate in the morning.  It's one of those days where you skate one or the other.  So I like to skate in the mornings.   
 Q.  We shouldn't draw any correlation with you getting knocked around last night quite a bit by them?  
MATT MURRAY: No.   
 Q.  Is that something you expect to see a lot of this series, especially given what's at stake?  
MATT MURRAY: Are you talking about contact?   
 Q.  Yes.  
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, yeah.  A big part of their offense is their defensemen.  They go hard at the forwards, like I said yesterday.  It's definitely expected, something I'm prepared for.   
 Q.  Is the biggest thing you can see it coming, prepare for what's going to come?  
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, it helps for sure.  But at the end of the day we do a lot of work off the ice to prepare our bodies to go through whatever it is we need to go through on the ice.   
I think either way, I'm prepared for whatever may come.   
 Q.  After having kind of a night to sleep on it, does that game still feel as weird to you as it seemed to us?  
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, a little bit, yeah.  It's hard to kind of put a finger on why it turned out the way it did.  I think we were just glad to get the win at the end of the night.   
Like I said yesterday, I think it just came down to big plays at big times.  Not a dominant performance, of course, by any means, but we got it done.   
 Q.  In terms of their offensive approach, looking at your scouting reports, what you saw in Game 1, pretty much match up?  
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, a lot of similar stuff that we scouted, for sure.  Like I said, important shots.  Top four D are huge for them.  The offense, as well.  They're good at jumping into the rush, as well as off the cycle, in-zone type of play.  That's a big part of their offense.  They showed that yesterday, I thought.   
 Q.  What do you have to do when facing a team that has such an active defense like them?  
MATT MURRAY: I think try to stay in their face as much as possible, not allow them to get going.  That would be the biggest thing.   
Then, you know, they're going to get their chances, but at the end of the day it's just about trying to hold them off, playing hard defensively.  I think being hard in our net front is key, too.   
 Q.  Yourself, do you have to be more aware of guys that might necessarily be in the play when it comes to their defense being so mobile?  
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's a big staple of their game.  You definitely have to be aware of it, for sure.  It just comes down to reading the play, knowing where guys are on the ice, looking for that second wave, not get too puck focused.  A lot of times they hit late, that's where they create their offense.  Like any other game, it's about reading the play.   
 Q.  Is there an advantage of freshness?  Do you feel fresher than you would normally at this time?  
MATT MURRAY: I don't know.  I don't know.  When you're hurt, you're still putting in long days.  You're still working as hard as you can to get back.   
Yeah, I don't know how to answer that.  You're not skating every day, that may help you in some regard.   
 Q.  From your point of view, what does the offense need to do to generate more chances against this Predators team?  
MATT MURRAY: Well, I'm a goalie.  I'm no specialist (laughter).   
 Q.  You have the best point of view from back there.  
MATT MURRAY: Uhm, I guess.  I don't know.  Like I said, I'm not much of an offensive specialist, myself.   
 Q.  Do you think their team may be underestimated in terms of their defense?  
MATT MURRAY: No, I don't think so.  We knew what was coming.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT