NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 22, 2017
Matt Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Inaudible)?
MATT MURRAY: ...do what you think you need to to be successful and not put too much pressure on it or anything like that.  Just kind of play your game.
Q. I get the impression, from the way you talk, what the series is at really doesn't impact your preparation a whole lot at all?
MATT MURRAY: No, I mean, honestly, no matter what point of the season it is, I try to keep my preparation the same.  You know as a player what it takes to be successful for yourself.  Yeah, no matter what the situation, whether it's in September -- I mean, October or now, it shouldn't really change the way you approach the game.
Like I said, you just do what it takes to give yourself the best chance for success.
Q. Have you been surprised by yourself at all with how well you played after jumping in after such a long layoff and injury?  Or you just expected it to be fine?
MATT MURRAY: I don't know.  I have no expectations, to be honest.  I can't say I was surprised.  I can't say I wasn't surprised.  I just try to go into it without any expectations and just kind of jump in and kind of get lost in the moment and just play.
Q. Does it feel like you were out at all after playing a few games?
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, definitely the more I play, the more comfortable I feel.  It still feels like I missed some time, which it's hard to duplicate a game scenario in practice, especially when you're hurt, you can't skate for a couple weeks or whatever it may be.
So, yeah, the more I play, the better I'll feel, but I'm still working to get better and better.
Q. Matt, they mentioned in the broadcast yesterday the two teams that won by six goals during these playoffs both lost not only the next game but the series.  Is that instructive to you guys just to not get overconfident about a big win like that?
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, we say it all the time.  It doesn't matter if you win 7-0 or 1-0 in triple overtime, the game's over, and you move on to the next one.  It was great we played well and we were able to put some pucks in the net, but it really doesn't mean anything at the end of the day.  All that matters is we got the win.  That's what we're going to do.  We're going to move on and focus on the next one.
Q. Have you learned anything from your elimination game scenarios?  Even dating back to last year, I know you've always approached things the same way, but are there any lessons in any of that?
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, I think the biggest lesson is just never to get too high or too low and just keep things in perspective.  There's going to be times when things don't go your way or you may question a penalty call or something like that, but you really -- you just try not to let it affect you, and you just kind of do your thing, go about your business no matter what happens during the game.
I think, if you can be consistent in that regard and just kind of be not as affected by outside circumstances, then you'll be giving yourself the best chance.
Q. Do you feel like you guys as a team, or you personally, sort of have come up with a blueprint the last couple of games for how to beat these guys?  Or is it dangerous to think that way?
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, we try and take any lessons we can from each and every game and study the film, whatever it may be.  Yeah, like you said, we can never get too comfortable.  They play a really solid defensive style and gave us a lot of problems.  So we need to stay on our toes, and I think just worry about what we do rather than what they do.  I think, if we could take care of our own business, like I said, we'll give ourselves the best chance for success.
Q. Could you talk about the challenges of closing out a series on the road, and then what do you expect in Ottawa tomorrow?
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, I think it's a challenge to close out a series whether you're at home or on the road.  It's a team with their backs against the wall.  They're going to bring their best.  We need to be prepared for that.
It's going to be a fun environment to play in, I think.  The fans will be excited about it.  But like I said, we don't need to worry about any of that.  We just need to worry about taking care of our business and playing our game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT