CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2011
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We're here with 26-year LPGA Tour veteran Sherri Steinhauer, and eight-time winner on Tour, retired today officially after the CN Canadian Women's Open. Just minutes after your last competitive round, what is going through your mind? 
 SHERRI STEINHAUER: Well, it's been a great run. Golf has been so good to me, the LPGA has been great to me, and to finish on the last hole and have a lot of the players and caddies back there was really special. 
 I didn't think I was going to -- I thought I was going to hold the tears, but that was really emotional to see all the support prosecute the players and caddies. It was very special.

 Q. Can you talk about the significance of deciding to finish your career here in Canada? 
 SHERRI STEINHAUER: Well, my first win came here in 1992, actually in Winnipeg, at the du Maurier but it was in Canada where I captured my very first win on Tour. My parents were there, and it was their wedding anniversary. I lost my mom this December, and this week, Thursday, would have been mom and dad's 60th wedding anniversary. I wanted to come here and have this be my last event. 
 I was fortunate enough that my brothers and dad all flew in for it, so we were all together as a family. I know mom was with me today. I had a good round today, and I know she was with all of us.

 Q. So many people there to greet you, family, friends from the Tour. If you can, is there one memory among all those people that stands out in your career? 
 SHERRI STEINHAUER: One came to mind, but it's not one I can share on camera. I think just the friendships and playing golf with people who have the same mindset. We're a different breed of people, and these guys are great. I'm just proud to have a lot of them as my friends. 

 Q. To end your career today and this week, maybe not as tough knowing that you're still going to be busy the next month or so with the Solheim Cup, does that kind of help ease the feeling that you might have right now? 
 SHERRI STEINHAUER: Absolutely, because it's not like I'm walking away. I still have a lot of work to do ahead of us with the Solheim Cup and helping Rosie. So I'm totally looking forward to that. I think it's going to be a great experience. 
 To be with the team and be on the inside of that is going to be really special.

 Q. Finally, what's the future hold for Sherri Steinhauer? 
 SHERRI STEINHAUER: I have a huge bucket list. I have a huge bucket list. I'm going to learn to ride horses, fly fishing, got a ski trip planned in February. Just in the beginning here, just take some time and enjoy life and not have to worry about my days being revolved around golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT