LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
August 30, 2007
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  Thanks for coming in today.  You shot a 5-under 67 out there.  And you're the leader in the clubhouse.  Can you talk about your first round?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  It was a real solid first round.  I just made five birdies, no bogeys.  Just had a couple of good up-and-downs, and one of those rounds that just seemed real easy.  Although golf never is easy, it was fun to have a day like today.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Speaking of those five birdies - can we go over them starting with 3.   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Number 3, let's see, 1, 2, and 3.  I hit a 9-iron in there about 20 feet and made that for birdie.   
 THE MODERATOR:  The 9-iron, how far out were you with the 9-iron?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  You're getting pretty technical.  How far out were we on 3?  It was about 140, something like that, it was downwind.   
 Number 7 it was the same type of shot, and it was out about 140.  I had a 9-iron, made about a 20-footer there for birdie.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Kind of the same holes.  How about on 14?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Number 14, par 3, I hit a 9-wood about 25 feet, and made that.  16, the par 5, I just hit a driver, 6-iron up the right side, pitched it up about 3 feet and made that for birdie.   
 THE MODERATOR:  How far out were you with the 6-iron?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I had 187 to the front, plus 5.   
 THE MODERATOR:  192?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  192 to the flag, but it was straight downwind.   
 THE MODERATOR:  And the final birdie on 17.   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  On 17 I had, what do we have on that one?  We had 61 on the front.  It was on 72, 82.  181 to the pin.  And I had a 6-iron and made about a 30-footer.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Very nice.  All right, questions for Sherri.   
  
  Q.  How much does the scoring today get affected by the wind?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I think there was some pin placements out there you couldn't really go for because of the wind.  Otherwise on the front 9 on some holes where you have to -- I was hitting the 9-irons in.  You have to run it up.  You're a bit at the mercy at the front of the green with kicks.  That part made it difficult.   
 I think this golf course, if you can hit the club into the green, it's hitting and stopping.  But if the pin's in front, then you've got to bounce it up, and it's in there.  They're hard in front.  So you have to use your imagination on how you think the ball's going to release.   
  
  Q.  You made some long putts on those birdies.  I mean, the greens you said they're holding well if you're hitting them in.  Just rolling really well though, too?  Just the general shape of the greens?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah, it was one of those days where I just kind of got them started online, and they held their line.  And that's generally due to, you know, striking it solidly, the putts.  And I was doing that today, and not something I've been doing much this year, so it felt really good.   
  
  Q.  I think you said on TV your mom and dad are here this week.  What are their names?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Fritz and Nancie.   
  
  Q.  Sheboygan?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Madison.  Four hours from here.   
  
  Q.  I think you mentioned they don't get many chances to watch you play.  Made it extra special today?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Absolutely.  They watched me play at Nabisco.  They went out to Palm Springs and watched me play there.  Otherwise this is the only tournament that they've come to this year.  They usually always go to Vegas and Atlantic City because they have some extracurricular activities there.  And those two tournaments got cancelled so they were -- they weren't real happy about that, so (laughing).   
  
  Q.  Springfield's a little more low key?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Oh, yeah.  They love coming down here.  They've been coming down here for years.  So I've played in this tournament 20 years, and I'm not so sure they've missed any, so.   
  
  Q.  Well, you were at the Rail for years.  The local people here, this is a huge change for this tournament.  What's this -- I mean, every year you girls play new venues, but is this kind of strange?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  It is.   
  
  Q.  It is strange come to go Springfield and driving in?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  It is, it is strange.  Coming into Springfield and driving in a different direction.  I got to Springfield, and I had to ask my caddy how to get to the golf course.  Usually you're just on autopilot driving around.  But Panther Creek is a real nice golf course, and the facilities are wonderful for us.   
 So, you know, we appreciate what the Rail has done, and we had a great run out there.  And it's great to be here now.   
  
  Q.  (No Microphone).   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I think so, somewhat.  There's a lot of birdie opportunities out on this golf course.  So, you know, in that respect, there's similarities.  I think the wind blows a little bit more here than at the Rail.   
  
  Q.  I think today you played with a Solheim teammate, right?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yes, Angela.   
  
  Q.  Is it always a little strange those weeks leading up to the Solheim, you're playing with somebody that in a couple of weeks is going to be - maybe you already consider yourselves teammates already.  But is it kind of special?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  It's real special.  I think we do consider ourselves teammates out there and we're pulling for each other.  And Angela's a great person.  And we were talking about some things with Solheim out there today, and we're just really looking forward to the competition.   
  
  Q.  The Solheim in two years will be up in northern Illinois.  Will that be something to shoot for?  I mean, you'd be close to mom and dad.  You know, that's a couple of years down the road.  But do you know anything about that course at all?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Just I just know that a Nan owns it.  That's all.  I just heard that yesterday.  But I really don't know that much about it.  But being close to home, obviously, that would be huge.  But we've got to get by this one first and I'll worry about that.   
  
  Q.  What's it going to take to win this weekend?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I think that's one thing that's, you know, what's good for me today you go out there and you have no expectations.  You have no idea what anybody's going to be shooting.   
 Sometimes I think I get in my own way when I'm worried about possible outcomes and maybe trying to fire a low number.  For instance, at the Rail, you knew you had to score low.  So when you start missing putts you would get frustrated.  I don't have any of those expectations because I don't know what the players are going to do.  So it's going to really depend on the weather, I think, and the wind and how much it blows how low the scores will be.   
  
  Q.  (Asking how many holes she played prior to start).   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I played nine holes on Tuesday, and I played 18 holes yesterday.  Yeah.  Well, we had a practice round in Portland for the Solheim cup.  So when I flew in on Monday, my flight was cancelled, and I didn't get my clubs until 1:00 o'clock on Tuesday.  Otherwise I probably would have played more holes.  But that is the reasoning why I played so few.   
  
  Q.  (No Microphone).   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Right, right.  Yeah.  I haven't, hadn't come to Springfield to play it earlier.   
  
  Q.  In recent days players had said you were getting a lot of roll in the fairways.  Are the fairways still pretty firm today?  Are you getting a lot of roll?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah, when we started out the fairways were a little soft.  You could tell they had watered them.  But with the wind they dry out so fast, so downwind you're getting a ton of roll.  Into the wind, you're not getting as much.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you and congratulations on a great round.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT