SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 18, 2007
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Thanks for coming in and joining us today.  You were 3-under, total 5-under now to make a nice climb up the leaderboard.  Go ahead and talk about your round if you don't mind.   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I played really steady today.  I had a lot of birdie opportunities and capitalized on a few of them.  So it was a real steady day.   
 Fortunately when we started the round at 12 o'clock, it wasn't so cold.  When I started warming up at 10:30 it was pretty cold at that time.  So I think we got the better half of the draw here because this afternoon was pretty decent and it wasn't cold like it was in the morning.   
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard?  Birdies and bogeys, please.   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Start out, parred 10 and 11.  No. 12, hit a good tee shot just down the right side, hit a 9-wood and pulled it to the left and absolutely had no shot on that pitch shot.  It goes right down to the -- down to the pin, so I chipped it by and 2-putted for bogey.   
 Parred all the way through to 18.  Hit a good drive, 7-wood, lay up and hit a wedge in about, oh, about six feet and made that for birdie.   
 And then made the turn on No. 1.  Hit a driver, 9-iron about 35 -- no, it was about 40 feet.  That was a long one.  Made that one for birdie.   
 Parred 2 and 3.  No. 4, I can picture the hole -- No. 4, the par 4.  Hit driver, 7-iron to about eight feet and made that for birdie.   
 5, I hit my drive in the trees and hit a real good hook out.  I had a real tough shot and got a 7-iron all the way down there to where I had sand wedge in.  Hit it about two feet and made that for birdie.   
 Then on No. 9, I hit it in the left rough, which you just can't do.  Actually tried to pitch out with a 7-iron, didn't get it out.  Hit a 9- iron on the green and 2-putted for bogey.  Doesn't sound like many close birdie putts.   
  
  Q.  Were conditions not as bad as maybe some people thought playing-wise in terms of wind, cold, etc., etc.?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah, I don't think it was -- it wasn't bad out there at all.  The wind wasn't -- it was just a nice, gentle breeze.  I prefer to not play in cold temperatures; another five degrees colder out there and I wouldn't like it too much.   
  
  Q.  It's a ways off but I wanted to ask you about St. Andrews coming up this summer, you've had great success over there; what's the significance do you think for the Tour to be going to play the Old Course this summer and for you in particular?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I feel very honored to be going there and defending at St. Andrews, and I just think it's a great step forward for the LPGA to be competing on the home of golf.  There's so much history there and I think it's really going to be great for our Tour and very appreciative that we have the chance to play the British Open there.   
  
  Q.  By the time you went off at noon, Sarah Lee had started to put up her good round.  Were you aware of what she was doing, and did that factor how you went about your game knowing she was steadily climbing and climbing up the leaderboard?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  When I bogeyed 12 and I was 1-under at that point and she was at 10, I started thinking, "Ugh, that's a long way off."  But at that point I just said, I can't worry about what she's doing and keep concentrating on my own game.   
 I felt pretty good out there, and you know, fortunately came in with a decent round; kind of be hanging around.  I understand at this point I think 9-under is leading.  So I'll just keep working on the same things for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  And how tough is it that you have -- that now you have Lorena up at 9-under, as well, the way she's been playing and how she can sort of take over a tournament on the weekend?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah, obviously she's a great player, and when you see her name up there, you know you've got to play your best golf if you think you're going to catch up.  But like I said, I'm just going to stay in my own frame of mind.  I can't worry about what they are doing.   
  
  Q.  Has there been any scuttlebutt among the women out here about Michelle getting an exemption into the Samsung without even having hit a shot out here this year?  I know Brittany was pretty vocal about it yesterday, saying that it's not fair for her to get an exemption while everybody else is basically playing their way into the Samsung in October.  I'm not sure if you have any view on that.   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Honestly it's the first I've heard of it.  I didn't even know she was in the event.  I'd have to think about that.  It would be a tough one.  Doesn't seem right.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Obviously for you guys, it's a lucrative tournament, limited-field event.   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Absolutely.  To get an invitation without even playing any golf this year, I guess I don't quite understand that.   
  
  Q.  What do you think it might take on the weekend to win this thing?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Before the tournament started, you know, I thought about what would it take to win this tournament, and I really no idea.  I couldn't get a feel for it.  Sometimes that's good for me that I'm not shooting for a number and just going out and starting fresh.   
 As far as what it's going to take this weekend, I still don't -- I don't really know.  I don't know.  That's a good question.  Never playing here before and it all depends on the conditions.  Now, tomorrow again, it's supposed to be possibly rain and cold.  If it does rain, and it's cold, I just don't think the scores are going to be that good.   
 And then on Sunday it's supposed to be weather.  The weather is supposed to be a little bit warmer, so I think the scores will be better on Sunday, if that happens.  So, it's hard to say.   
  
  Q.  Are there birdie holes out there?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  There are birdie holes, and it all depends where the pins are.  There's just some holes that are just -- they are red lights.  You know, you just play for your par.  And then when you see a pin, there's green light holes out there.  And so there's a lot in course management and picking your places where you can -- where you can go for it out there and go for the birdies.  Otherwise, be patient and just be happy with your par and move on.   
  
  Q.  Sorry about all of these big feature-type questions but --   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Oh, no.   
  
  Q.  How much does a pro golfer depend on their ears as far as hearing how a golf shot sounds coming off the club face, like when you know you've hit it flush; is hearing an important sense to you out on the golf course?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Well, it's interesting you brought that up, because I wore a headband all day today.  I started out with it on the driving range.   
 So when you -- for me, anyway, starting out with the headband on, it started to get warmer out there and I said, I can't take this off.  It's going to -- you know, my first shot is going to feel like a rocket.  And that sensitivity, my ears will definitely be more sensitive.   
 So whatever the best way I can say it is if, you know, I'd say it would be hard to start without a headband and put a headband on.  It would be hard to have my headband -- and I never took it off today, and I got really warm, but I can't take it off; because of the sound it's going to be different and I'm going to have a different feel.  I warmed up with that feel with having my ears covered and I needed to stick with that the whole time.  So for me, there is a sensitivity issue with my ears.   
  
  Q.  You and Juli Inkster are both up at the top of the leaderboard in the same position, you're both --   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Who is that?   
  
  Q.  You and Juli Inkster.  You've been around the Tour a lot and --   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Are you saying we're old?  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  I am not saying you're old.   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Is that what you're implying?  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  But you're surrounded by all of these 20-, 22-, 23-, 24-, 25-year-olds.  Is that good for the Tour that there's such versatility up at the top?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Absolutely.  I think it's great.  There's a lot of excitement and, you know, these young players coming up.  I'm just so glad to be a part of it and watching what the next generation of the LPGA is going to be coming to with the young players.  You know, us older ones stick together.  So Juli is a good friend.   
 And I think what's really fun for me is I captained the 2002 junior Solheim Cup team and a lot of these kids were teenagers at the time and a lot of them were on my team.  So I've known them for a long time.  So that's made it a lot of fun for me to be out here competing with the young ones.   
  
  Q.  Sort of have the mentality to keep them in line a little bit by rising up above them on the leaderboard because you're more experienced?   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  What's your question?   
  
  Q.  It's sort of, you know, would it -- is it nice when Juli Inkster wins, when you win; that it's not always these hot shots that are at the top of the leaderboard.   
 SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah, it's nice.  It's just nice to -- I think it's great just to be out there with them and hopefully, you know, us older ones can pull off a win now and then and keep them working a little harder.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT