WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2006
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COLIN CALLANDER:  We have Sherri Steinhauer, with a 66 today leading the championship by three shots at the moment.  You must be delighted.
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I am extremely delighted.  I think it's funny because when I won back in '98, I never even made a trip into the media room until after I won.  (Laughing).  So this is my first time.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Well, welcome.
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Thank you.
COLIN CALLANDER:   You obviously love your chances, you've won it twice before, what is it about that makes this event so special?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I wish I knew what it is.  I love the imagination that it takes to play on this type of golf course.  I love the hard conditions, the hard fairways.  This golf course just kind of suits my game when I'm playing well.  Now, obviously, 2003 when we were here, I wasn't playing very well and I missed the cut.

But back in '98 and this year, I'm swinging much better and this golf course, it does suit my game quite well.
Q.  How do you sort out, when you have trouble with bunkers
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Actually I was.  See, you must have heard that I took a lesson from Bill Harmon, okay.  Yeah, I was having a difficult time and I went and saw him back in January and we actually just spent a few minutes in the bunker and he definitely helped me out quite a bit, just a small tip.

As far as being in the bunkers, I hit in one on No. 10 off the fairway, and the other ones that I've been in, I couldn't even go at    I was in one on, it would have been No. 4.  And I couldn't even go at the pin so I had to go sideways.

And the other one was No. 12 and I had to go backwards.  And I hit into another bunker but that one I could go at the pin and I hit a good shot out.  So that's been my experience in the bunkers; it has not been too good.
Q.  Does it bother you that you've won this twice when it wasn't a major championship and now it is a major championship?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  You know, that's the way it was set up at the time when I won it.  I think, you know, when anyone asks how many tournaments I've won, when I say the British Open, they just assume it was a major, and I just don't say anything.  (Laughter).
Q.  Would it mean a lot to win this event?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Oh, absolutely.  The crowds have been wonderful.  I think they are such knowledgeable crowds and so courteous, I love playing in    I love playing here because of that.  When you walk up to every green, they applaud.  They are just very much into the game which you can sense as a player out there which gives you a great feeling.
Q.  Was there something about today's conditions that were easier to score on, the course playing a little easier?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  This is the first time    in 2003, the weather wasn't actually that good.  Back in  '98 the first two days we played with a lot of wind.  Today was actually the first day that we played with less, it was just a slight breeze and very warm conditions.

So given that for me, it was set up a bit easier to play than it was with the wind we had Thursday and Friday, along with it being a little cooler.  I always play better when it's a little bit warmer.  These old bones, they loosen up a little bit more with a little heat.  So that helps me today quite a bit.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Could we gets the details of the birdies and eagle?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  The third hole, I hit driver, 8 iron and made like a 30 footer.

11, the par 5, I hit a driver and I laid up with a 6 iron and then just had a three quarter punch wedge in to about five feet and made that for birdie.

13, I hit 7 wood off the tee, a little long, had just a punch 9 iron in there.  Carried it a little further than I wanted to, went over the green, and I chipped it in with a sand wedge from about 25 feet.

15, I hit just a really good drive and I had two, what do we have, like 209 to the win.  I hit a 3 wood, went over the green and it was probably about a 50 foot putt that I made from off the green.  I could have chipped it, but I elected to putt it and made it.

15, I hit 3 wood off the tee with just a knock down wedge into the green about three feet and made that for birdie.
Q.  You're probably too young to remember but
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I didn't in '98, and '99, I was pretty close to the lead each day.  I can't remember if I was wire to wire but I definitely did have that experience there and back in '98, I came from nowhere.  So in '98 I came from the back of the pack.

But you know, being a front runner is a different position.  I'm not going to hide it.  I'll definitely be nervous and I just hope I can keep my nerves under control and just enjoy the position and just I have to    I just have to keep talking to myself and not worry about what position I'm in and just play one shot at a time out there.
Q.  Inaudible?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Well, obviously that would be a huge bonus.  I can't describe    I don't want to think about it too much because it would really mean a lot to me.  I have a lot of work ahead of me for that to happen.
Q.  What sort of things do you say when you talk to yourself?  (Laughter.)
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I just try to calm myself down a lot.  There self is a lot of self talk going on inside my head but I have to calm my said down and not    I don't want to think about the position that I'm in if I'm constantly just enjoying where I am and maybe pretending I'm not in position.  You can too a lot when you fool your mind.
Q.  Do you look at the score board?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  A little bit.  I probably won't tomorrow.  I'll probably be just be playing my game.  I'll definitely have a plan with my caddie.  He'll keep me informed if I fall behind or you know, whatever.  He knows when to talk to me.  He'll give me good body language that I can read.
Q.  What's his name?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Bob Kendall.
Q.  You mentioned on the front nine
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  1 and 2 I just barely missed.  They hit the edge of the hole.  4 and 5, 6, I just had a 12 footer.  7, I had a 4 footer for birdie that I missed.  8 was about 15 feet and 9 was about    I missed about an 8 footer for birdie.
Q.  Inaudible?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  It broke left to right and at the end it came back and it was coming back right to left at the end and it ended up going in right in the middle.
Q.  Are you surprised the fact that you weren't coming in with all cylinders firing?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Not particularly.  The last week at Evian, I didn't play well two of the rounds and wasn't real happy with my putting.  You know, just didn't hit it great.  So you know, that's golf, though.  You just never know.
Q.  When was your last win?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  2004, Sybase in New York.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Thank you very much and good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT