LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2002
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR:  Great round.  Thanks for coming in. 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Thank you. 
MODERATOR:  Maybe we could go over your score card. 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Just parred the first three holes. 
On No.  4, I hit a driver 9-iron to about four feet, made that for birdie. 
No.  5, the par 5, I hit driver 5-iron about 15 feet and 2-putted for birdie. 
Parred 6, 7. 
8, I hit a driver  -- I'm sorry.  I hit a 3-wood and a little 8-iron, came up a little short right, made a real good 25-footer from off the green. 
No.  9, I bogeyed.  I hit 7-wood off the tee to the right into the trees, punched it through the green, chipped back by about seven feet, and missed that one for bogey. 
Parred 10, 11. 
12, I hit driver off the fairway right in front of the green, upslope.  It was about three-quarters of the way up.  Chipped up to about five feet, made that for birdie. 
13, I hit a driver 6-iron to about four feet, made that for birdie. 
Parred 14, 15. 
16, I actually hit a 3-wood in the trees to the right, missed the green to the right, got up and down.  Hit a pitch about five feet, made that for par. 
17, I hit 3-wood, 9-iron about 15 feet, made that for birdie. 
18, hit my drive left.  Got a little excited, a little anxious (laughter).  I pulled my drive, hit the trees and knocked it down.  Hit a 7-iron out of the trees.  Fortunately, I actually had a shot.  I hit it over the trees, 7-iron.  Had about 168 to the pin.  Hit it about 30 feet, made that for birdie. 

Q.  You finished tied for 13th here last year, had a 66 in the third round. 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Last year or two years ago?  I didn't think I played last year.  I thought I had last year off.  Maybe it was two years ago.  Was it last year? 

Q.  We can check.  Whenever the last time you played here. 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Okay (laughter).

Q.  Is there a sense of confidence when you come to a course where you know you've played well in the past?  Is that your mentality going into today?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I've always liked this golf course.  It reminds me a lot of home.  Being from the Midwest, from Wisconsin, conditions are a lot alike.  The fairways are the same condition.  Greens are somewhat similar. 
It's a fun golf course.  There's a lot of birdie opportunities out there.  If you're hitting it well, you get a lot of chances. 

Q.  I didn't get a chance to look, but what has the first part of this season been like for you, the first seven or eight tournaments?
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Actually, this is the first time I've been in the press room this year, so... (Laughter).
I haven't gotten off to a great start this year.  But I've been patient.  I feel like my game's coming around.  Basically right now, you know, it's just Thursday, there's a long way to go till Sunday.  I don't want to get overanxious or overexcited over one good round.  Out of this year, this is my best round of the year.  As many rounds as I played, sometimes you kind of (laughter). 

Q.  At the moment you're tied for the lead, but there's a lot of players still left to play.  Just judging by how the course is playing today, does it seem like it's going to be outstanding scores this week all the way around, all the way through?  Talk about how the course is playing today as far as making good scores. 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Conditions today are ideal.  There's hardly any breeze, just a slight breeze.  The temperature is just perfect.  The conditions are definitely conducive to some great scores today.  I think we'll definitely see a lot more good scores, too, this afternoon.

Q.  Do you prefer the morning round or afternoon?  Is there a difference for you? 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Actually, it does get a little more difficult in the afternoon.  It usually hardens out a little bit more, the golf course, and there's a lot more bounces and rolls that you have to depend on and figure out. 
Typically the afternoon generally can be a little bit more difficult. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT