ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2001
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was it a really strange kind of day out there? First you're finishing a round and then you're playing another round and then you're told you got Saturday off.  What was it like out there?  And then to put up a round like this?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Well I think, first of all, I think that I'm still in a bit of a fog from the events that happened this last week.  To get up to early this morning to play --  and I just had to finish a half a hole.  And I went and sat in my car for a couple hours and just turned on the radio and listened to a lot of the talk shows and just getting caught up on what's happening.  Now it's what?  Almost 7 o'clock.  So I've actually put in about a 12 hour day.  So I think I'm still in that fog.  On this golf course it's pretty difficult to be out here this long because with all the hills and it's tough to get around.  Fortunately we do have quite a few cart rides.  And that helps out.  But I am definitely beat right now. 
 
Q.  What kind of position do you think this leaves you in for Sunday, because obviously whatever happens tomorrow there's very little you can do about it.
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  When this happens it's just very, very difficult to predict what is going to happen tomorrow.  Personally, along with the other ones that were out there today, we feel that the other wave has the advantage.  But no matter what wave you're in you always think the other wave has the advantage.  So personally I'd like to continue playing.  I'm not real happy about having a day off tomorrow.  I would have rather have just tried to keep the momentum going.  And the other ones, they had a day off today, but in the morning I think it's going to be even dryer out there. They're going to get more roll.  I believe the greens, since they took quite a hit from the rain, I believe that the greens will be in better shape for them tomorrow.  But they can look at it also in another way and think that we have an advantage.  But as far as predicting what's going to happen on a new golf course with as crazy a week as this has been, I'm not sure what's going to happen. 
 
Q.  What was going on in your round and what were you doing well?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  My best round? 
 
Q.  Since when was the last time you shot something like this?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Oh.  I have no idea.  It's been a long time.  I haven't had a great year this year.  I've struggled.  I had one good finish in Youngstown this year.  And I don't believe -- I'm trying to think what my best round was that week.  I think I was more around 68, 69.  Might have to go into last year since I've had this kind of round.  But like I said, I'm just honestly, I'm just still, I'm in a fog. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I was driving it very well.  Actually I was rolling the putter better than I have in the past.  I've struggled with that tremendously this year.  Today I was rolling it very, very well. 
 
Q.  Any reason for it?  Did you have any notions that a round like this might come about?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  No, golf's a funny game.  Sometimes you look up and the putts go in and sometimes they don't.  And this year it just seems like every time I look up the putts aren't going in.  It's been a tough year that way.  Today I looked up and they were going in. 
 
Q.  Is there anything that you think maybe this year has been different than last year as far as your play?  Anything you can attribute to it? 
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Is there anything why my play hasn't been as good this year? 
 
Q.  Play hasn't been as good, is there any reason why?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I'm not sure, but I've had a problem with my driver.  Just this last week I discovered that the second groove down was cracked.  And that happened to me last year with a driver.  Halfway through the season.  And I ended up playing with the driver for quite a long time.  And because it was cracked the ball was going in very, very strange directions.  And for the longest time I didn't know the reason why.  Until I discovered the crack.  And because of that I lost a lot of confidence with my driving.  And I am not attributing it to that, I'm just saying that I got a new driver this week that's in good shape.  And I'm definitely driving it much better. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I'll probably come out and practice for a little bit.  Not long.  I'm not a practicer.  I didn't grow up hitting balls on the range.  I'll just come out and just make a few swings and work on the short game and putting.  Just for a very short time.  And otherwise just probably watch TV all day.  That's what I seem to, it's hard for myself to take myself away from the TV and follow what's happening.  And I'll probably be doing that tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Talking about that, in light of that, when you saw the rain and the fog delay last night and the end of the year, really were you kind of like, did you have the feeling that maybe we should just end this and get out of town?  Did you think about that at all?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I never thought about ending, never thought about ending it.  I think there is some irony in it.  With all that's happened.  And now the type of weather that we have had this week.  You know, to be honest, I haven't really thought about much, except what's happened to our country and the devastation. And it's just very, very hard to get beyond that and just coming out and playing golf is, you know, sometimes it doesn't feel right. Sometimes I don't feel like I should be out there.  I wish there was something that I could do.  But being so far away, everybody's feeling the pain.  And it's just very, very difficult because there is nothing you can do. 
 
Q.  Do you want to go over the scorecard?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Okay.  The birdies, starting on -- I started on the back nine.  So 10, 11, 12 is a par-5.  And I hit a driver, I laid up with a 9-wood to wedge distance.  And hit a wedge in about 10 feet and made that for birdie.  Parred all the way through until 18.  I hit a driver or a 3-wood off the tee and had a 5-iron in to about 15 feet and made that for birdie.  No. 2, that's a par-4.  I hit a driver, six iron to about two feet.  Made that for birdie.  Number 6 is a par-5.  And I hit a driver, 9-wood about 15 feet, made that for eagle.  Number 7 I hit a 7-iron in to about a foot and a half and made that for birdie. 
 
Q.  You had a chance on nine as well, didn't you?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I did. 
 
Q.  You just missed it?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah.  I actually had some more chances out there and actually at 8 and 9.  Very good putts, just missed.  But golfers can always go back and find where they could shoot lower.  No exception today. 
 
Q.  Given the kind of year you've had up until now, what does  around like this do for your confidence and can you feed off that more than the lack of success all year?  If you come out on Sunday and you're right around the lead?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Well I think that it will make the time off this winter much easier.  Given -- it will definitely give myself a lot more satisfaction ending this year on a good note.  No matter what happens on Sunday, I definitely will gain some confidence for this winter and I definitely do feel better about my game right now. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT