U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 4, 1999
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I just continued what I was doing yesterday.  And again on that, I'm not watching the leaderboard.  Just playing my game and playing one hole at a time, and continuing that again today.  I played very consistently again. 
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah, you know, the pressure could be on Kelli leading.  I don't have any choice.  That's the spot I'm in; so, I'll take it. 
 

Q.  Inkster is at 10.
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  No.  I've never been this close to the lead.  It's a new experience.  But I'm just going to enjoy it and have fun with it. 
 

Q.  We've heard that the greens have gotten a little quicker.  How did you putt today?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Actually, you know, that's going to be the key for me this weekend is going to be my putting.  I wasn't as happy today with how I stroked it, but that's what I'm going to go out and work on.  But the greens definitely have quickened up a bit; so, it's going to be an important factor this weekend. 
 

Q.  What do you like about this course?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I think it's interesting, because there's holes that you have shorter irons in; holes that you have longer irons; and it's a real  mix-and-match.  But it's fun golf course that's in great condition and hitting off the fairways when you have a good lie, it's a lot of fun.  When you've got the good lie, and you know, if you're striking it well, it promotes a lot of good play.  It was asked of Kelli earlier:  Did she feel the American representatives in the U.S. Open are playing very, very well; would she like to see an American win.  She said it's our championship; it's on American soil; I would.   
 

Q.  After your fantastic Solheim Cup performance, do you feel a little patriotic, too, this year?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  You know, may the best person win.  I don't like to go against the foreigners.  They are great players.  They are my competitors.  And of course, I'd like to win; and if it's 4-under, you know, they played the best.  Solheim is separate from this.  This isn't that kind of competition, and it's just, you know, may the best person win this week. 
 

Q.  Just along those lines, your thoughts on Grace Park's play?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  She's an excellent, excellent player.  You know, a young player that hits it long, and she's -- she's going to do very well out here when she turns pro.  Great player.  Fun to watch. 
 

Q.  How do you think she's able to hit it so far?  What enables her to do that?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I thought it was that Ping driver.  But I have a Ping driver, and it's not going that far.  She's just got a great swing with good timing, and she gets everything -- all her arm speed and everything connects at the right time to get the most -- most distance out of her swing. 
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT