U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 1999
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHERRI STEINHAUER:  We had just finished on 5, and we were on the tee on 6 when it hit.  You could hear the thunder and all; so I didn't really know it was going to be called and then it was.  I think the hardest part was the closest shelter was back on 5 tee.  So I actually played 20 holes today, because I had that walk all the way back, and all the way back to 6 tee.  But I think after yesterday's weather, I knew that there was a great possibility today could be the same, and kind of iffy, thunder stormy-type weather; so I was prepared for it.

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I played pretty solidly. I have to say I was a bit surprised coming out of the gate with three birdies.  I actually wasn't striking the ball as well, and there's days when I've hit the ball much, much better and scored worse.  But, you know, that's golf.  And today wasn't one of the greatest ball-striking days, but I got it around and made four birdies and eliminated any bogeys.


Q.  How much did the British Open win do for your confidence?

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Well, I think after shooting 81 the first day over there and coming back to win, it definitely gave me the never-give-up attitude.  Not that I never, ever have had that kind of attitude, but it really did prove its point that week.  I think playing over there and playing in the  wind, you know, you play catch up and here it's little bit different with -- as calm as it was out there today.  You need to fire some low numbers.  It's a little different kind of game.  But definitely the British Open has given me a lot of confidence.


Q.  Last time I looked, there was more sub-par rounds either finished or in progress than during any round of any Women's Open.  You've played in enough Women's Opens to know what to kind of expect.  Is the number at all surprising to you?  What's going on today?

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Well, I mean when you come to an Open, you always expect quite a bit of difficulty.  And it's a good golf course.  I would say, though, the reason the scores are so low is the greens aren't putting as fast as we're normally used to at an Open.  Right now, today.  Now, I don't know by Sunday.  I have a feeling -- funny feeling that by Sunday, they could speed up quite a bit.  But I think that's what's giving people a lot more opportunities for birdies, and they can give the putt a good run at it rather than worrying about knocking it by and having the 3-footer coming back.  So I think that's a big difference.  The greens are rolling extremely well, and if you can read it and get it started on line, you can make a lot of birdies out there.


Q.  As you said, it's going to get tougher as every Open does, and as was eluded to, you've had a lot of Open experience.  Are you glad to get a good start out of the box like this?

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Oh, yeah I'm glad I got a good start.  And just, you know, I'm just planning on staying as focused as I can and not getting ahead of myself.  To be honest, I've played the whole round today never looked at the leaderboard.  That's not what I'm interested in.  I'm just interested in playing golf and doing the best I can.


Q.  The round today with you and Se Ri, Grace, did it seem like there was a little match play going on with Grace and Se Ri, and then there's you doing  your own thing?  It just seemed like a lot of the attention was focused on them, and you're the one who birdied the first three holes.

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Well, with Se Ri being the defending champion, she's going to have a lost attention.  And Grace, being an amateur, and as good a player as she is, they are going to have a lot of attention.  And that's fine.  I don't mind being in the background a little.


Q.  For all the success that you've had today, you're still four shots back.  Is that a rather strange feeling at an event like this?

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Now see, that's the first I knew because I didn't look at the leaderboard.

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  That's fine.  It's four days, and like I said, I'm not paying attention to the board, and I'm just out playing golf and having fun and doing the best I can.


Q.  The greens, how did you like the way the greens rolled through the 18 holes today?  I know they were true, but were they real, real -- not as fast as what you're normally comfortable playing on?

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  At an Open, today, they probably were not as fast as what we're used to.  But like I said, they are rolling true.  And if you get them started on line, you can make some good aggressive putts at a birdie.


Q.  But like at a regular tournament before the Open.

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Actually, last week in Corning, our greens were extremely fast.  But for the most part, these are probably about what we putt on.


Q.  Where was your fourth birdie?

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  No. 9.


Q.  Any bogeys?

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  No.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT