THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 1998
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  This is just great.
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  This is unbelievable.  I didn't think it was going to come down to me and I said in the interview earlier this week -- they said, If it came down to you and you had a putt for the win, would you want it?  And my answer was, I'd take a 6-footer uphill.  That was about it.  That was about it.  This is unbelievable.  Our team, they played great.  Just glad we got it. 
 

Q.  Were you watching the scoreboard?  Did you have a feeling it could come down to you?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I wasn't paying attention closely.  I just kept looking up and all I was seeing was black.  I knew things weren't good.  I was 1-down after the first hole and then won a couple and got it back and never looked back after that. 
 

Q.  You look up on the hill and you see your team mates looking at you and you know they're wanting that putt to drop so bad.  What's that extra pressure like?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I wasn't looking at them (Laughs). 
 

Q.  Sherri, just a couple of weeks ago, you weren't even sure you were going to be on this team and here you are sealing the victory?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah.  I just want to thank Judy for giving me the opportunity.  This is a thrill of a lifetime and I want to thank her for giving me the chance to be on the team and I'm just really glad that I was able to help out and since I was a pick. 
 

Q.  Have you ever felt any better?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  No, this is unbelievable. It feels great.  Unbelievable. 
 

Q.  That shot on 15.  What did you hit into there and how did that feel when you knocked it in with your shoe when you got up there?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I wanted an 8-iron and I wanted a hundred to the front and the pin was on 23 and I said, That would be a perfect 8-iron, a little uphill into the wind.  And my lay ups are not always the best and I laid it up perfect.  101 and I had 124 and I knew exactly how hard to hit it and I said, Just do what you know how to do and I was shaking, but it was -- that was a lot of fun. 
 

Q.  Compare the emotions of winning for your country as compared to winning for yourself?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I don't think there's anything to compare it to.  This is more important than anything.  This is unbelievable feeling. 
 

Q.  Some great shots down the stretch.  Have you ever hit any better shots under pressure?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  No, they felt great.  I tell you, the important part on 15, I had a perfect lay up and it was a perfect 8-iron, a little uphill into a little breeze and I just said, You've hit the shot a million times.  Just stick with it and keep your mind focused on what you're trying to do and I just had a target in mind and it was unbelievable.  What a feeling. 
 

Q.  How about the putt at 16?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  I just-- I knew she was going to make that putt.  I said, Just get this thing over with and I didn't know if it was going to get there.  It got there.  What a feeling. 
 

Q.  It must feel great, being the captain's pick, to feel like you justified your existence on the team?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  Yeah, it's hard, you know.  Judy told me, she said, One thing, just don't feel like have you to prove yourself out there.  I picked you because you earned your spot on the team and don't feel like you have to go out there and prove yourself.  You're here because -- she said, You're one of the best.  And I just want to thank her for giving me the chance and the team played great and we're going to have some fun tonight. 
 

Q.  I can imagine.  Have you ever felt any better on the golf course than just right now?
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER:  No.  This is better than any kind of win or anything.  You can't compare it to -- playing for your country is pretty neat stuff and this is pretty unbelievable. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT