RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 6, 2011
John Merrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. John, how you doing?   
 JOHN MERRICK: Good.  
  
  Q. Three straight birdies out of the gate. Great round today.   
 JOHN MERRICK: Thank you. Yeah, got off to a nice start. Very nice about 12-footer on 1. That kind of relaxes you having a birdie on the first turn. Was able to birdie the par-5 there and then hit close on the par-3. Yeah, nice to get off it a nice start like that.  
 Kept it going. Made one bogey after that. And then, yeah, just played solid. It was nice to birdie the 17th hole. (Indiscernible) back left side, but got in there close and made it.   
 Would have liked to birdie the last, but, you know, can't birdie 'em all. I'm happy with where I'm at.  
  
  Q. You've had success here before. Talk about that experience and your thoughts on tomorrow's rounds.   
 JOHN MERRICK: Yeah, for some reason I'm just comfortable on this golf course. I don't know why. I wish every course was like this.   
 I don't know, I can just see the shots out here. I've been fortunate enough to have some decent finishes.  
  
  Q. Talk about your season up to this point.   
 JOHN MERRICK: Yeah, it's been okay. You know, it started out a lot different than what it was the previous season. I kind of didn't know what to expect in that 126-150 conditional category. So it was kind of one week on, one week off. I didn't play two tournaments in a row until, you know, quite a ways into the season.  
 So it's nice to have it in the summertime to play some tournaments back to back. This is my 15th event, so it's been a shorter season definitely. I would like to get in those playoffs and keep playing (indiscernible).  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on tomorrow? Scott moved out a little bit ahead. He's three ahead of you right now. Does it change the game plan?  
 JOHN MERRICK: Yeah, I think they're going to -- you can tell which flag placements they haven't used yet, and there's going to be some tough ones. It always seems to blow in the afternoon out here, so I'm sure the greens are going to be (indiscernible.)   
 You know, you're going to have to make birdies. He's at 13-under, so if he shoots something in the 60s, you know, we're going to have to go pretty low.   
 But you never know. You know, it should play pretty tough tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT