RENO-TAHOE OPEN
July 16, 2010
John Merrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right, John, thanks for joining us here in the media center at the Reno-Tahoe Open. 7-under par through 36 holes; 68 today. Just give us some thoughts on your first two rounds here, and then we'll go from there.   
 JOHN MERRICK: Yeah, I played solid today. I didn't make a bogey. I think I birdied all the par-5s. Kind of had easy birdies on those, and then hit it close on I think the 4th hole. And then, yeah, just parred in from there.   
 So it was kind of a no -- kind of boring golf day today. Made a few mistakes yesterday, but I think everyone is gonna kind of do that out here.   
 Yeah, no complaints. Played solid the last couple days.   
  
  Q. Was your rookie year '07?  
 JOHN MERRICK: I played here in '07 and '08 and then didn't play last year. Just didn't work in the schedule. Yeah, so I played here twice.   
  
  Q. And runner up '07?  
 JOHN MERRICK: I played in the last group when Flesch won, I remember that, and I tied for fourth maybe, something like that, or third. And then I think I was top 10 the next -- 8th or 9th. So, yeah, I've had some good, decent success here.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about your connection with Nevada State Bank. I don't believe you have any real true Nevada connections.   
 JOHN MERRICK: Dallas Haun is the CEO of Nevada State Bank. He's a long-time friend of mine. He's from Long Beach, California. He's a member at Virginia Country Club where I play golf at. He was an executive at Citi National Bank for a long time in California, and then since like probably four years ago is CEO of Nevada State Bank.   
 So John Mallinger and I have a sportsmanship there, and we go out and play a couple days with his clients. He's got a bunch of golf-crazy clients. Then he likes the exposure out on tour, so that's kind of the connection there.   
 I get that a lot. Are you from Nevada? Are you from Nevada?   
  
  Q. Yeah. I knew you weren't. Can you talk a little bit about what you think you've had some success here? What is it about Montreux that works for you?  
 JOHN MERRICK: Yeah, I don't know. I think you really need to be keened in to your tee shots out here and you lines off the tee. Fortunately enough I've driven the ball well when I've been here. That's what I'm kind of doing here this week. I think I've only missed a couple fairways this week, which is good.   
 You need to be pretty precise in your club selection. I think hitting greens is real important. I think that has been one of my strengths lately is hitting a lot of greens. So, yeah.   
  
  Q. You must have putted well when you played, especially in the '07 season. Do you have trouble with the mountain reading thing?  
 JOHN MERRICK: Yeah, I'm glad that I played here a few times just because, yeah, everything comes off the mountain and slopes down to Reno. Need to take that into consideration.   
 It could look like an uphill putt and still be pretty fast just because of the lay of the land. So fortunate enough I figure that had I had a little knowledge there, a little wisdom before I came here in week. Yeah, the greens can get pretty tricky.   
  
  Q. A lot of 7s and 8s it looks like today. Talk about what you think it's gonna take to win this thing over the weekend.   
 JOHN MERRICK: Well, score-wise, yeah, it just depends on the winds , I think. If it's calm like today -- you know, we played in the morning. I think we're gonna tee off in the morning 7:00 -- I think the tee times are 8:00 to 10:00 or 11:00.   
 If the wind stays down, you can shoot in the 60s. I think it all just kind of depends on the wind. The greens will get firm, but, yeah, I think you need to keep making birdies and keep shooting in the 60s to win the tournament.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT