U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2019
Taylor Wood
Andrew Medley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So in your golf experiences, where is this going to rank, getting to the final day of the four-ball?  
TAYLOR WOOD: One of the better ones, absolutely one of the better ones.  We've had a blast.  Great partnership.  It's been a blast.   
 Q.  You played in the U.S. Open.  
TAYLOR WOOD: It's not there.  It's not quite there.  It's not there.  That's still the best.   
 Q.  But as far as the four-ball's concerned --  
TAYLOR WOOD: 100 percent, awesome.  I'm ecstatic that we get to play next year, being exempt.  I think, to me, other than the U.S. Open, this is the hardest USGA event to qualify for.  It's crazy how tough the qualifying is.   
 Q.  What did you guys do well today?  
TAYLOR WOOD: We got up early.  We got up early and we kind of tried to hang on to that and I think we got, you know, a little bit tired and worn down and just hit some loose shots, made some loose decisions through the middle, and they fought back, to their credit.  And then we just, thank God -- you know, they ran out of real estate, unfortunately, which is we were able to cling on to a little bit of a lead.  Big win on 16.  So be 2 up, going to 17, and Andy hit a bunker shot of bunker shots.   
 Q.  Andy had a nice run there on the front, where you guys birdied three holes in a row to kind of take charge.  What did you do well on that stretch?  
ANDREW MEDLEY: You know, we just kind of ham and egged it, to be honest with you.  I think I birdied 1, you birdied 4, 5 and 6.  Then it was the first time we'd been up a substantial amount in a match.  So it was kind of a different mentality for me.  I haven't been in that position yet all week.  We've been clawing back all week.  Had really tight matches, great matches leading up to today.   
So it was a different mentality.  I think we got a little bit complacent out there, candidly, and anyway they played a helluva match and fought back.  I think finally I told Taylor, I need you to wake up for about another hour, and hopefully we'll have a nice dinner tonight.   
 Q.  When they clawed back into it on the inward nine, how did you keep yourselves together mentally to hang on to the lead?  
ANDREW MEDLEY: We both kept pushing each other verbally saying, hey, we need each other and we got to dig in.  I know we're wiped out, but stay focused.  Need another hour of undivided attention.  Give me all you have.   
 Q.  What's this mean to you?  You've played in this before.  You've played in other things.  Where does this rank on your list?  
ANDREW MEDLEY: It's up there.  It's probably one of the coolest golf experiences I've had, honestly.  I mean, playing in the Mid-Am's a neat experience.  Haven't made it past a couple matches in the Mid-Am.  For me, this is up there just to make it to the final day.  Win or lose tomorrow, we're happy to be here, and we're going to give them a helluva run tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tell me about the couple birdies on the front that got you the lead.  
TAYLOR WOOD: Hit a Wedge on 4 that landed in the exact spot.  Our caddie's been phenomenal all week.  He's had us dialed.  He's awesome.  So I think we're fortunate.  I think we got the best caddie here.  He dialed it in, hit it right where we needed to, and it went to eight, ten feet, made that.   
Then almost knocked it in the hole on the next hole.  Had a real short four, five footer for birdie there, made that.  Then turning back again against the wind, it's just so tough.  Every hole into the wind is so tough, with how hard it was blowing.  Hit a great, kind of chippy 8 iron in there to about 12 feet or so and made that.   
So kind of got it going, and we really had a chance on kind of really on 8 and 9 to go 4 up, and I missed a short one.  Thought I hit a good putt on 9, just misread it a little bit.  But I had it four, five feet to go 4 up, and that kind of was then we kind of started losing some oil.  But righted the ship, and ground it out.   
 Q.  One last one.  Obviously, the wind picked up this afternoon.  The forecast tomorrow, you'll probably see some wind again.  What do you have to do?  Do you have to change anything in your game to play in these kind of conditions?  
ANDREW MEDLEY: In Arizona, we don't see 30 miles per hour gusts.  I don't recall ever hitting an 8 iron from 110 yards in the last five years.  But I've played in a lot of wind in my past.  To be honest with you, I told Taylor this afternoon when we were teeing off that I personally really enjoy playing in it, and it kind of forces you to be a little bit creative and to feel some shots.  Finesse shots are important, and I think we both did a good job of kind of managing that today.   
 Q.  Thank you for your time.  See you tomorrow.  
ANDREW MEDLEY: Thanks.   
TAYLOR WOOD: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT