SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2006
Danny Edwards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You can't be disappointed with a red number out here, can you?
DANNY EDWARDS:  Oh, no, but I bogeyed the last hole.  And this year I just cannot seem to finish very good and it's just frustrating to finish up and bogey the last hole after a good round.
Q.  First player off on your home course, that had to feel kind of cool?
DANNY EDWARDS:  Yeah, it was.  I hit a great drive off the first hole and I thought well that's a good start on the PGA so that was, that was kind of cool, yeah.
Q.  Take us through your birdies real quick.  How far were the putts on those?
DANNY EDWARDS:  2 was close.  I made about a six footer on two.

6, I birdied 6.  I had a nice putt on 6.  Made probably a 14, 15 footer there.

14, I hit it close there.  I hit it two feet there on 14.

15 was 15 feet, 18 feet.  Made a nice putt on 15 there.
Q.  Those aren't birdie holes.
DANNY EDWARDS:  Well, you got to hit good shots in there.  On 14 I hit a drive and an 8 iron and I got a nice bounce off the side of the bank there.  And it rolled down to two feet.

And then I hit a great drive and a great 6 iron in there on 15, about 15, 18 feet and made that one.  That was really a good birdie on that hole.
Q.  So you're back to even through 12 holes, were you angry at that point or still feeling good?
DANNY EDWARDS:  I was feeling good.  A little disappointed.  I had kind of let it get away there.  And I said to my caddy, let's get a couple birdies coming in.  And then I birdied 14 and 15.

And 16 I hit a good drive, just didn't kick down on the hill.  So I had to lay up and didn't make birdie there.  So it was frustrating to bogey 18.  It wasn't really playing that tough today, the wind is not up.  So kind of tough to finish up there.
Q.  Did you block your drive?
DANNY EDWARDS:  Yeah, I just hit a poor drive.
Q.  So what about tomorrow, was today the day you attack this course with the wind down?
DANNY EDWARDS:  I'm not sure you ever attack this golf course.  You just play it for what you can get out of it, because it's, you got to hit a lot of good shots to the green.  There are not very many birdie holes, like you say.  You just have to kind of take them when you get them.  I don't think you play super aggressive out here.
Q.  Right now 2  and 3 under seem to be the scores near the top of the board.  Do you think that will hold as the afternoon progresses?
DANNY EDWARDS:  No.  It remains to be seen.  There will be some good scores probably.
Q.  Golf Digest once named you the best golfer from Alaska.  Does it seem like Alaska today?
DANNY EDWARDS:  I don't know, I was only there for three months.  I don't know how they came up with that statistic.
Q.  They had to find somebody.
DANNY EDWARDS:  I'm the only golfer, they would rather not say that.  But let's just say I was the best golfer ever.  Let's say that.
Q.  Can you only play golf in Alaska for three months?
DANNY EDWARDS:  I never played golf in Alaska.  I was there only three months.
Q.  What were you doing there?
DANNY EDWARDS:  My folks were there for three years and they just kind of went up there and that's where I came along and we were there for three months and then we moved out of there.
Q.  You were born in Missouri, right?
DANNY EDWARDS:  No, I was born in Alaska.  I lived there three months.
Q.  And then Missouri?
DANNY EDWARDS:  Yeah, then we moved.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT