DAVIS CUP FINALS
November 20, 2019
Reilly Opelka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ITALY 1, USA 0
FOGNINI/Opelka 6-4, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions? Any question in English?
Q. What do you think about the point of Canada, that they don't go out to play? What do you think about that?
REILLY OPELKA: I don't know. I mean, I see why people are upset, you know. I get it. But I see on their point, they said they had some guys injured. So at the same time it's tough. Maybe they just learn to bring a fifth guy next year.
But, yeah, I see the controversy with it.
Q. What is your opinion about this tournament, the new Davis Cup?
REILLY OPELKA: I like it. Yeah, I'm a fan of it. Obviously being from the States tennis is, you know, not popular at all so we're not going to be getting much support. But I like it actually, I like it that you have a winner after, you know.
It's easier for fans to follow. The only complaint I have is it was really hard to stream. If you want to go Davis Cup, you think you'd want to make it available on more streaming platforms than just Fox Sports 2 in the US, which no one really has. Should have put it on the Tennis Channel.
Other than that, I'm a fan of the new format. Maybe making it every two years or every three years would be I think the next step in the right direction.
Q. There's been some players suggesting that we could combine the ATP Cup and the Davis Cup because they are so close in the calendar. Your thoughts on that? What improvements would you suggest going forward? What do you think is the best time in the calendar to fix the Davis Cup?
REILLY OPELKA: Well, the ATP Cup is pathetic. I think it's shocking on behalf of the ATP for them to pass that and allow that. It's pretty embarrassing, actually. It's pretty bad for the sport. It makes it more top-heavy than it already is. For example, I'm 35 in the world. I'm not going to play because I'm the second- or third-highest ranked American, and only the top two guys play.
It counts as an additional 19th tournament. So every player gets 18 tournaments on their ranking card. So you have to take your top 18 results, those go for your ranking. Those that play ATP Cup get a 19th. So it's unfair, there's not equal opportunity for everyone.
For example, Moldova qualified. Moldova qualified. I mean, their No. 1 player is ranked pretty far behind me and their No. 2 player I don't think he's ranked. So that's going to make for, you know, an 0-0 match that's going to be 30 minutes maybe. That's not good for the sport either.
Q. What do you think about this new format and the amount of players who play very late?
REILLY OPELKA: I mean, it is what it is. We can adapt. Tennis players are pretty good at that. You don't really know when you're going to play matches. You can go really long, or you can go really quick. We're used to being on standby.
So I don't think it is a big concern, especially -- I mean, in Europe, people stay out a little later. But again, there hasn't been many people (smiling). So I don't know what to say about that.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT