DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 23, 2015
James McGee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. SOUSA/J. McGee
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What was it like to be in a big court?
JAMES McGEE:   It was certainly a new experience going out there and playing on such a big court and obviously televised, good enough crowd, and, you know, playing somebody who is top 50 in the world.   That's pretty much a new experience for me.
I felt like Joao did a good job keeping things simple, not making a lot of unforced errors.   I think it was a good example where experience really shows, because I certainly didn't get off to the type of start that I wanted.   I wasn't as ‑‑I wasn't playing the type of tennis that I knew I was capable of.
You know, just coming off the court now after 20 minutes, definitely, you know, a tough loss because I feel I could have at least performed to a higher level, and, you know, disappointing.   But again, it is something I've just gotta learn from and learn from and move forward and keep the right mindset moving forward, stay positive.
So all in all, it was a valuable experience.   And credit to Joao for playing so well.   Just gotta learn from it.

Q.   Ireland is not exactly a hot bed of tennis.   How does a young guy start?   Where does it all come from?
JAMES McGEE:   My story, I grew up close to the local tennis club, Castleknock Lawn Tennis Club.   From a young age I was just down there, you know, in the summer spending 10, 12 hours a day going down there, just loved it so much.   Sometimes there weren't players there so I'd just hit against the wall. 
Just from a very early age I played a lot of sports but I really loved tennis a lot.   My mom played a bit, and she would get out and play with me.   Just had a great time. 
At 13‑‑ I didn't have a coach for a few years, 10 to 12 or 9 to 12.   At 13 years of age I met a Canadian guy who just came other to Ireland to coach.   He had a huge influence on me for about four years.   That was the first time I started playing on indoor courts at 13.   I was usually just playing in the rain growing up.   Went on indoor courts from 13 to 17.   And immediately, because I was working so hard and I loved the game so much, you know, my results in Ireland really got pretty good and started beating some pros at that stage. 
Then at 17 years old I decided to turn professional and actually, I moved over to Barcelona, and because I ‑‑

Q.   Joao said you and he were together at the same time.   
JAMES McGEE:   No, he left to go back to Canada, so I decided to go‑‑

Q.   No, Sousa. 
JAMES McGEE:   Oh, sorry.   Yeah, Joao, actually even at 17, when I was 17 and he was about 14, we actually‑‑ that was the first time we met each other.   So I know Joao quite well from a few years back.

Q.   What academy was that in Barcelona?
JAMES McGEE:   Well, initially in 2005 it was the Catalan Federation.   That's in Barcelona.   But now he's based in a place called BTT, Barcelona Tennis Academy, and that's a place that I have spent some time at over the past few years. 
I haven't been there in the past year, but we have trained together and know each other quite well from there.   So, you know, that's it.

Q.   When did you find out about getting the wildcard for here?
JAMES McGEE:   I found out ‑‑today is Monday.   I found out on Wednesday morning.   I was in the States.   I was in Bradenton, Florida, at IMG Academy, just training.   Got an e‑mail and just said I got the wildcard.   I was quite surprised.   I got a flight out that evening.   Went Bradenton‑Atlanta, Atlanta‑Paris, Paris‑here.   Got in late on Thursday, I think.

Q.   So you weren't intending to come and play quallies or anything like that?
JAMES McGEE:   No, I was intending to train.   I was thinking about going down to Acapulco if I got into the qualifying because I had entered both qualifying.   No, it was a real, pleasant surprise.   Yeah.

Q.   Have you met the Irish contingent yet?
JAMES McGEE:   Briefly.   I met Breda McLoughlin, Colm McLoughlin's wife.   I actually have to go and meet him.   Haven't had a chance to spend a lot of time with him because I have been preparing. 
It's great to have them, great crowd and everything.   I would have loved to have put on a better show and at least made the match a little bit tighter.   But that's the way it goes.   Hopefully I can come back next year and do it.

Q.   You trained this week with Andy and Tomas?
JAMES McGEE:   Yeah, that was brilliant.   I trained with them, what was it?   I think it was ‑‑what day was it?   Doesn't matter.   I trained with Tomas in the morning and Andy in the afternoon.   Both really nice guys.   Spending a bit more time with Andy Murray, just saying hello and the odd shot here and there seems pretty nice.   Same with Tomas. 
Brilliant to be playing at this level and to meet these guys.   You realize they are normal lads.   Sometimes you watch them on TV and they seem ‑‑they don't look human but they are. 

Q.   You've got some predecessors who tried very, very hard and have had Grand Slam appearances. 
JAMES McGEE:   Yeah.

Q.   That's obviously on your ambition list? 
JAMES McGEE:   Yeah.

Q.   What else?   What are your realistic goals?
JAMES McGEE:   Well, I mean, I qualified into the US Open last year, and last year I made a number of sort of last‑round qualifying ATP events, two or three, Queen's, Memphis, another one in Newport.   Really I believe I can be in the top 100.   I am 210 now.   I think was 180 at the end of last year. 
And I have beaten a number of top 100 players, but in order to actually get there, I'm going to have to put in sort of better performances on the big stage, especially whether it's finals at tournaments or semifinals of challengers or first rounds at these ATP events.   That's really what's required.   That's where all the points are, you know, to get the ranking up.
So I believe, you know, if I keep working hard, I'm going to get inside the top 100.   As I said, I have beaten plenty of top 100 players, but for me I feel it's a matter of consistency over the year.   Can't be sort of up and down. 
So I'm talking with my coach about it.   We are sort of devising a plan of what I need to do on and off the court in order to do it.   And, you know, I just take it day by day, keep going, you know, and see where I go.

Q.   I suppose one of those tough decisions you have had to make is about the upcoming Davis Cup tie, Jamie Delgado, who is your coach, Ireland's coach now, and the Belarus tie?
JAMES McGEE:   Assistant coach, yeah.

Q.   What was your rationale behind that?
JAMES McGEE:   It was a tough decision, because I have played a lot of Davis Cup matches since 2009.   For me, you know, talking with my coach, Nick Cavaday ‑‑

Q.   Oh?
JAMES McGEE:   Yeah, Nick is here with me, Naomi Cavaday's brother.   He's been coaching me properly since the end of last year.   We talked a lot about the schedule, because learning from the previous years we felt like making bad decisions with the schedule was part of the reason why I wasn't getting up there. 
We felt like having a smart schedule, it ties into getting your ranking up there.   And after Davis Cup, there is obviously Indian Wells like two days after the Tuesday, which you can't really make it if you're leaving from Ireland.   We felt that Indian Wells is a big tournament.   Obviously it's a huge tournament.   But I'm not defending points from Indian Wells, I'm not defending points from the following week and the following week, so there is a good two‑ to three‑week spell there of sort of points are up for grabs.
So it was a tough decision.   But as I said to the Conor Niland and also to Jamie, you know, I want to play the next tie which is in July, and it's something I did last year where we lost to Belarus in January/February last year, and then I came back and won two of my singles matches for the Group II relegation match against Egypt. 
So I do love playing Davis Cup.   I'm very proud to play for Ireland.   But there are times where I have to make decisions for my own career that I feel are best at the time, and I do feel at 27 years old it's an important stage of my career, and that's one of the reasons why I made this decision.   It has nothing to do with the guys or Davis Cup or money or anything like that.   It's purely to do with schedule and just making the right decisions for me.

Q.   You're not the first person that says, I'm sorry, I'd love to play Davis Cup, but it's not convenient for me right now. 
JAMES McGEE:   Not now, unfortunately, but I do hope to come back and play in July.

Q.   You understand there are players which come from countries which are really not known for tennis, they have to shift at some point to France or Germany or Spain to train? 
JAMES McGEE:   Yeah, in a way I do.   For me I have been searching for different places over the years, whether ‑‑ you know, lately I have been training in the States quite a bit.   I have spent a bit of time in Atlanta because I have a couple of coaches and trainers there who can help me out in between tournaments. 
Also, you have the good weather.   You have plenty of players and facilities and all that.   And when I care compare that to Ireland, which I love being home and love seeing my family and all that, sometimes there is just not a lot of players there.   We don't have clay courts.   It's not the best environment to thrive in. 
So I have to make the decision, as I said, like I haven't been home in three months, and it's, for me, I believe and I know that I need to be in that type of environment where I'm being pushed.
There are plenty of good physical trainers in Ireland, but at this stage I really believe that's what I need to do to sort of spend more time outside the country if I want to achieve my goals and dreams.   That's why I'm doing this.   So for me personally that's what I feel.   Maybe for other people they are different, but that's what I feel.

Q.   What about the finances of the whole thing?   Is it hard to make ends meet?
JAMES McGEE:   Being top 200 ‑‑well, certainly getting a bit of prize money from today is going to help (smiling).   But top 200 in the world, when you're on the Challenger Tour, you're ‑‑the Futures Tour, you're definitely not making money, you are losing money every single week even if you win the tournament.   Challenger Tour you can get by. 
One thing about playing in the States, because I have spent a lot of time in the States the past two years, you can get housing in these tournaments.   90% of families are really nice you go and house with.   Even a couple of weeks ago I was in Dallas, a Challenger there, and someone housed me for seven days and breakfast, lunch, and dinner.   You do save money at the Challenger Tour, and you make whatever you make, but you're certainly not making big money unless you go deep into the tournament.

Q.   And I guess you have to pay Nick, as well?
JAMES McGEE:   That's it.   Luckily for me I have a sponsor at the moment.   It's been something ‑‑

Q.   Who is that?
JAMES McGEE:   It's a private sponsor, so unfortunately I can't go into that, sorry about that, but if it wasn't for that private sponsor, there is no way for Nick to be with me here. 
I'm very grateful to my sponsors for being able to help me.   You know, one of the reasons why I created my blog, JamesMcGeeTennis.com, which I haven't been active on over the past few months, but part of creating the blog was to sort of get my name out there, explaining what it's like being on the tour when you're not top 100 in the world, and a lot of people gained a lot of insight out of that.
But, yeah, really you want to be in the top 100 to start making good money, you know.   That's the goal that.   You know, I don't want to be a 200 player for the rest of my career.   I feel like over the past couple of years I have been making progress, but, you know, just that's it. 

Q.   Pardon my ignorance, but coming from Britain, the LTA and funding has changed a lot, but players still get funding.   You don't get any funding from the Irish Federation?
JAMES McGEE:   In 2014 I received money, funding from the Irish Sports Council, and I hadn't received any funding since I think it was 2008, since then.   I haven't received anything in 2015. 
So that's it, you know.   And it's certainly, if I had to give a percentage, it's probably less than 10% of what I would spend throughout the year, so it's not covering my expenses.   It's a great chunk of funding that certainly helps me and I'm very grateful for, but I need to find the other ways of raising money to sort of keep me on the road and keep Nick on the road with me.

Q.   So you flew back of the plane, I guess?
JAMES McGEE:   Oh, yeah, of course.

Q.   Leaving Bradenton when?
JAMES McGEE:   On Wednesday evening.   Yeah.   So then I went to Atlanta, Atlanta‑Paris, Paris on Thursday morning, and then Thursday morning flew from Paris to here.   I got here Thursday night.

Q.   Traveling for more than 24 hours?
JAMES McGEE:   Yeah, and I was awake for over 27 hours.   It was a tough trip, but it was worth it, you know. 

Q.   In relation to the quest to get into the top 100, how is the experience, training with Andy, playing on a court where Federer is about to step on in a couple hours' time, that must get you thirsty and hungry for more?
JAMES McGEE:   Absolutely, I couldn't agree more.   It's exactly what I need.   I've been thrown in the deep end this week, and you just gotta learn how to swim.   It's as simple as that. 
I just started off on a bit of a bad note today, didn't come out swinging and playing relaxed tennis the way I know that I can.   And just having the experience to come here to, you know, to share the hotel and all that with the other players, it's huge, you know. 
I'm just very grateful for the experience.   I just think moving forward, you know, I will feel like I have been in this environment before so the next time it happens it's not going to be so new to me.   Everything was new between the camera being on your face as you're walking on the court.   That was all sort of new to me and I was soaking it all in, but at the same time still getting ready to perform. 
But that's just part of the job, you know.   So it was invaluable.   Very grateful for it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT