TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2008
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 D.J. TRAHAN: From 35 feet, that's a little bit of a surprise. I mean, when you're stroking it well, you kinda feel like almost all your putts have a chance when you're standing over them. That's kinda the way I felt today. The strength felt really good, and I mean I hit a lot of great putts.  
  
  Q. You said you feel like the course played exactly the same it did the first two rounds, even with the rain we got last night.  
 D.J. TRAHAN: Absolutely. The rain -- we didn't get any mud on the ball today. The greens were, I felt, pretty much the same firmness and the speed was really consistent with the first two rounds. So even with all the rain we did get the course is holding up really nicely.   
  
  Q. How important is that knowing when we get rain that you're not getting mud on your golf ball when you're hitting it in the fairway?  
 D.J. TRAHAN: Oh it's huge. Obviously, when you are playing golf and you have mud on your ball don't know where the ball's going. So it almost doesn't even feel like you're playing golf. It's like, what I am doing out here. So when you can have a clean golf ball and you are under control of your golf ball it certainly is a lot more fun to play. Cause when you're out there with mud all you are doing is guessing really.   
  
  Q. What are you going to do for the rest of the day? 8-under par, you've got a long time before you tee off on Sunday.   
 D.J. TRAHAN: Yeah, I know. It's great going out early and shooting a round like.   
 I'm just going to maybe practice a little bit and relax you know. I think it's kinda easy to sit around after shooting 62. You don't really mind sitting around for awhile after that.   
  
  Q. (Question about the Par 5s.)  
 D.J. TRAHAN: Yeah, it honestly could have been. I hit a lot of really good put ts out there today. I hit a lot of good putts that found the hole and a lot of good putts that didn't. I just played excellent golf today. It was definitely the best round I've played all year. It was really nice.   
 Every putt I got over today, I felt really good over every putt. A lot of days when you putt well you don't feel good over all of them but I really did. Every time I stepped to the putt today I was very, very comfortable.   
  
  Q. Considering the rain last night, was it like throwing darts out there?  
 D.J. TRAHAN: It's been like that all week. The conditions have been -- the conditions for scoring all week. Obviously, a lot of scores under par. The cut was 3-under par.   
 The golf course has been there for the taking all week. And I'm sure some guys will get out there this afternoon-- I certainly know -- I imagine 14, 15 or 16-under could be leading this thing at the end of the day. So I'm really happy with the round I shot. I feel it kind of threw me back in the mix. But I don't expect to be within three or four shots of the lead at the end of the day.   
  
  Q. Does it make sense when you play the third day you got a feel for what the greens are actually doing out there?  
 D.J. TRAHAN: I think I've had a good feel for the greens all week. I just really truly burned the edge so much especially the first two days. Yesterday I couldn't get a putt to go in. And that's golf sometimes. It's frustrating. But I was making good putts and good strokes all the same. You just have to take it with a grain of salt.   
 I went out there today and finally made a few. And gees I burned a few edges again today. I really putted well for three days, but today I finally softened the length.   
  
  Q. D. J., any thought of 60? I mean you were 8-under --  
 D.J. TRAHAN: Absolutely. I played well enough today to break 60.   
 I tried to tell the guys walking off 18, I mean, it's out there. There's a lot of low scores to be shot out there today. That's why obviously I don't feel like-- hopefully I'll be within four shots the lead. I mean some of the guys that are 8, 9, 10-under could easily go out there and do what I did. The golf course you know without the wind is very vulnerable for low scores.  
  
  Q. Knowing there may be some weather coming in tomorrow it's got to be nice to be in this position that you are right in?  
 D.J. TRAHAN: Absolutely. Obviously I think we'll do three-somes off the two tees tomorrow trying to get the golf tournament in. Unfortunately, we're going to sea bad weather. It would be nice to see the weather stay the same and get this golf course to firm up a little bit. Obviously, it drains very well. It rained again last night and we had no mud balls today, no problems with anything. The golf course is in fantastic shape and it drains very well.  
  
  Q. So you don't expect it to stay this way, but it's got to feel good coming in knowing at the time you are the leader?  
 D.J. TRAHAN: Absolutely. Like I said, shooting 8-under I put myself back in the tournament.   
 Obviously when you make the cut on the number you are not thinking about winning, but you go out and shoot a number like that on Saturday -- like I said, I don't imagine I'll be particularly close to the lead, but obviously if you go out and shoot another light's out round tomorrow you never know what could happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT