U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2008
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
Q. You're right in there. It's tight, Tiger and Lee, some  
veterans, yourself, you said somebody has to win, do you feel that way? 
 
  D.J. TRAHAN: Absolutely. I think this tournament is up for grabs for a lot of people. It's probably going to be an exciting finish. I think 2-under is leading and I'm 3 back with 1- over. You can make a couple of bogeys and fall back right away. 
 
  I  
still think a 4- or 5-under par is out on this golf course, and I  
think a lot of players will tell you that as well. If you go  
play superb golf you can shoot that score out there. It's not  
likely to happen, but it can happen. But it's nice to see I  
still have a chance to win the championship tomorrow if I have a good  
day. 
   
   
Q. Tiger and Lee have played Majors and Ryder Cups out there in  
a circus-type atmosphere, is there anything that might have replicated  
that type of atmosphere that you're going to see tomorrow? 
  D.J. TRAHAN: No, this is Major Championship golf, there is really no other tournaments that can compare, obviously, with the four Majors. It's electric. Of the fans, it seems like they get even more pumped up for these events, obviously, with the significance of them. 
   
So it's -- there really is no comparison. I guess if you went to  
the Super Bowl or the NCAA championship, the biggest events, it's  
electric out there, it really is. People are rowdy, they're  
having a good time and there's a heck of a lot of them out there,  
too. 
   
   
Q. Do you feel like you've learned from anything of your two  
victories, being on smaller venues? 
  D.J. TRAHAN: Obviously no venue is as big as a major. But obviously, yes, you learn. When you're out here and you're playing week in and week out, I don't think you just learn when you win. I think hopefully you learn all the time. And certainly winning helps to boost your confidence, knowing you can get the job done or you have gotten the job done before. Obviously I feel like I can win this thing tomorrow, I know I have to go out and play a great round. The world No. 1 player is ahead of me, and he usually doesn't do the back stroke, if you know what I mean. He's a fantastic player, and everybody knows if they want to catch him you have to run him down, he's not going to come back to you. 
   
   
Q. How did what you feel today compared to your other wins? 
  D.J. TRAHAN: I was actually very calm and collected out there today. I was able to keep focused and try and block out the pressure and just go out and play golf. And I think that's really the hardest thing for any player to do in a Major championship is remember that you still have to go out and play golf. The magnitude of the event can easily grab ahold of you and bring you down, because obviously, as anybody will tell you. It's much harder to play golf when you're feeling pressure than when you're loose and you feel comfortable. So I did a good job of that today, I tried to focus real hard on that, and I think I did a good job. 
   
   
Q. Is there a point where you got comfortable in this round and  
it was just -- you were able to put -- 
  D.J. TRAHAN: Yeah, I never really truly got extremely comfortable, but I was settled down and my swing kind of led me astray there on the back nine and it was a little frustrating. I hung tough. I made a couple of good up-and-downs. The three- putt on 18 took the wind out of my sales for today. I really thought I hit a good first putt, I was shocked how slow it was. But overall I played solid today. I'm happy with the way I played. I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in today and unfortunately that happens sometimes. Hopefully I'll hit those same good putts tomorrow and they'll go my way. 
   
   
Q. What do you do tomorrow to kill time? 
  D.J. TRAHAN: It's hard to say, you know, because we're on the West Coast, I'm from the East Coast, it's been hard to sleep anyways. I just try to stay relaxed. I hung out in the room, read a little bit and watched TV and took it easy, and I think a lot of guys will do that. Some guys will get up and work out or do something, but it certainly tests your nerves a little bit sitting around all day waiting to play, especially teeing it up in a Major championship. 
   
   
Q. What did you read? 
   
D.J. TRAHAN: Just a magazine, nothing in particular, something  
that wasn't involving golf. Try to keep your mind off it a  
little bit. 
   
   
Q. You seem to have a great enthusiasm and eagerness to get out  
there and experience something that you have never experienced before.  
 
   
D.J. TRAHAN: Absolutely.  
   
   
Q. Is that correct?  
  D.J. TRAHAN: Absolutely. I have not been in contention in a Major before, and this is exciting for me. I can't wait to get out there and play tomorrow. You're testing yourself. When you're out there you're playing against all these guys, but it's you against the golf course and seeing how you can do. I'm excited about getting out there and just playing. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  D.J. TRAHAN: Birdie, eagle finish, it's Tiger. It doesn't shock you when with that happens. Obviously he's the best frontrunner the game has ever seen. It will be tough to catch him. I'm looking forward to it. I'm glad I have the opportunity to go out there and give it a shot of running him down, albeit a very difficult task. 
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT