BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 19, 2008
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH:  Thanks for joining us, 2-under par 70 today over at PGA West.  It was quite a rollercoster ride for you.  If we can just get some comments on the day. 
 D. J. TRAHAN:  Yeah, kind of the same day as yesterday.  I really hit a lot of good shots, and I hit a couple of shots that got away from me, and unfortunately short-sided myself on a couple holes and just nothing you can really do about it.  You got to hit a fantastic shot to get out of jail, and I wasn't able to do that a couple different times. 
 I hit a couple of good putts today that didn't fall for me.  So all in all, a little disappointing with -2 under, but still within striking distance for tomorrow. 
 JOHN BUSH:  Justin's got a little bit of a cushion there, but just give us your thoughts and your game plan heading into the final round. 
 D. J. TRAHAN:  Well, I think that, obviously, it's going to -- I'm going to have to go out and make a lot of birdies and shoot a good round of golf.  And obviously those of us that are chasing him kind of have to hope that he doesn't run off with it. 
 I guess he's probably three or four shots ahead of us by now, so it's going to take a good effort from one of us, and a so-so effort from him.  Obviously, if he goes out and plays the good round of golf, it's going to be just about an impossible thing to catch him. 
 JOHN BUSH:  We won't have you take us all the way through your card, but any of the birdies stand out today. 
 D. J. TRAHAN:  No.  Most of the birdies I made today were pretty routine.  Nothing was very spectacular.  It was really just a kind of a straightforward round of golf.  Unfortunately, I just made those four bogeys and made four mistakes and would have been nice to have cut those out, but the golf course was there for the taking today.  6-, 7-, 8-under was out there for sure, and I just unfortunately made a few too many bogeys. 

 Q.  It's kind of a hard toll when you shoot 2-under and you find that round disappointing, but that's kind of the way the mentality is in this tournament, isn't it? 
 D. J. TRAHAN:  It sure is.  Well, it's disappointing, the fact that obviously now I put myself four shots behind the leader on a day when I was hoping to go out and shoot that -6, -7, 8-under par.  I figured if the conditions were what they were today, that that's what I would need to do to keep myself right there in the race. 
 And unfortunately, I didn't get that done, and now I've got a lot more work to do tomorrow.  And, obviously, hopefully, I can go out and hit some quality shots and make some putts and give myself a chance.  But shooting that 2-under par today kind of puts you that much more behind the eight ball for tomorrow's final round. 

 Q.  Is there anything you need to do to switch gears when playing with amateurs all week to playing with your fellow pros tomorrow? 
 D. J. TRAHAN:  I don't think so, no.  We have all been doing this long enough that it's probably going to be a welcome change, just because everything kind of moves along a little bit easier.  You don't have to worry about where all the guys are and trying to be courteous.  It's very much more difficult to be courteous when you're playing with the amateurs because sometimes you just get ahead of yourself or you walk ahead and not thinking where they might be.  And tomorrow should be a little bit easier to hopefully focus and concentrate and get myself in a good frame of mind. 
 And obviously a good start will certainly help with that.  But I don't see it being a big deal, switching over. 

 Q.  Just going to ask you about your start.  Is it imperative for you to make birdies right from the get-go or do you just kind of wait for it to come? 
 D. J. TRAHAN:  No, I don't think I need to try to force anything.  Obviously the start over there at The Classic Club, those first two holes are pretty darn good holes, so if you could make a birdie right out of the chute, you're obviously -- it's going to pump you up and you're going to have a good feeling. 
 But I'm not going to try and push it.  I think pushing it probably could be the worst thing I could try to do.  I just need to try to take it one shot at a time and hopefully those birdies will come. 

 Q.  D.J., good luck tomorrow. 
 D. J. TRAHAN:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT