FRYS.COM OPEN BENEFITING SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN
October 12, 2007
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  D.J., nice round today over at the TPC Canyons course.  Bogey-free 65.  Maybe some comments about the round today.   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  Really good.  Did a lot of what I did yesterday.  Hit the ball solidly and made some putts again.  I actually maybe left a few out there.   
 Yesterday over here I definitely putted a little bit better and made a couple nice par putts, but today really a lot of the same thing:  Hit the ball solid and snuck in a few nice putts.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Looks like you're going to be tied for the lead or one back at worst heading into the weekend.  Your thoughts on being in contention through 36 holes.   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  Oh, obviously it's a great feeling.  It's where you want to be every week, up there with a chance to win the tournament.  Obviously I'm very pleased with the way I played for two days, and I think if I can keep it up there's a good chance I'll be there come Sunday afternoon.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Overall about the round today, hit 17 greens in regulation and no bogeys.  It seemed just looking at your scorecard pretty stress-free.   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  Somewhat.  The wind picked up on us.  I'd say it started blowing maybe about six holes into our round.  Maybe not as quite as hard as they had predicted today, but I think definitely the guys that played this afternoon got the worst of it.   
 When I got out there this morning the wind wasn't blowing at all really, maybe even less than three or four miles an hour.   
 It wasn't easy but, you know, when you're hitting the ball solid and you're confident about maybe leading it into the wind a little bit and having to deal with the wind a little bit and I think that was the case today, as was with Nick.  We both hit it solid.  I played with Nick Watney.   
 It was nice to be playing with someone that was also playing well.   
  
  Q.  In two rounds you got one bogey.  You're really doing a good job of managing your game.  Talk a little bit about the mindset that you've come into this tournament with in terms of trying to be very consistent every hole you play, not trying to do too much or too little, just try to take what the course gives you.   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  I think so.  Maybe at times you need to press yourself a little bit out here and go for a little bit more because guys you know are making lots of birdies.  But at the same time, I think, you know, you don't need to get ahead of yourself and try too much and press too much, because that's when you make mistakes and instead of making birdies you make bogeys.   
 If you're playing well on these golf courses, if you just sit back and play your game the birdies will come to you.  I guess that's really as simply as I can put it.  It seems to be that way most weeks.  Obviously this week is a little different as we stated yesterday with it being usually 20- to , 24-under winning the golf tournament.   
 When a guy is playing good, if you continue to play that way you're going to expect to make birdies and you're probably going to make birdies.   
  
  Q.  It's got to be hard to fight the temptation to press because you know everybody is trying to put up low numbers and there are so many opportunities for everybody out here.   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  Again, like I said, it's one of those things where you really have to focus on what you're doing out there and try not to get ahead of yourself and worry about what other guys are doing.   
 If you focus on your game and play well your golf game is going to take care of itself.  I think where guys can maybe get into trouble is pressing themselves to make those birdies and continually looking at the scoreboard and going, Wow, look at how many guys are making birdies.   
 You've got 18 holes and today was one of those days.  I mean, I shot 6-under, but it's not like I bunked four birdies in a row together or anything.  I made a birdie here and there, and at the end of day I had 6-under on my card.  It's kind of the way that you just need to do it on a week like this.   
 If you do make a lot of birdies in a row that's great.  But if you can get 5- or 6-under every day you'll be right there in contention.   
  
  Q.  I thought it was nice that you didn't have a bogey on the card today?   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  Any day you don't have a bogey is nice.   
  
  Q.  You're not chasing, trying to make up.   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  But if you only make one bogey in a round, if you're making birdies you're still going to have a good day obviously.  It's when you're making more bogeys than birdies.  So I don't know if I really would go with that theory.   
 Eventually it's inevitable there's a good chance you're going to make a bogey.  You don't need to worry about that, just worry about trying to hit the next shot well.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  I don't know if I'd call it a groove.  I'm playing smart golf and I'm hitting good shots.  I think when you do that you're going to get rewarded, especially if you're making some putts.  There's a lot of guys out here that are making a lot of birdies.  Look at the leaderboard.   
 It's amazing how many guys out there -- how low everybody is going.  I'm certainly not the only one who's playing well and feels good about their game this week.   
  
  Q.  It's an interesting day out here, because you've got Daly and Campbell who came back from the dead and scrambled and shot 9-under here.  You're playing a very consistent level of golf and you've got a share in the lead.  It's very interesting how you kind of approach this thing from a several different ways to get where you want to get to.   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  Sure.  I mean, obviously with 36 holes to play I'm going to try and continue what I've been doing.  A guy like them, what does that put them, 6-under for the tournament?   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  Sure, sure.  But, you know, if I continue to play the way I'm playing it makes it very difficult for them.  The guys that are in the lead, if they continue to play the way they've been playing, it makes it pretty difficult for guys that are at 4-, 5-, and 6-under to catch them.   
 Not to say that the winner will come out of the guys that are in the 36-hole lead, but if those guys can continue their good play it'll be tough to catch them.   
  
  Q.  I thought I asked you yesterday if you were going to have to change your game at all to play The Canyons.  Sounds like you did just pretty much what you did out here yesterday.   
 D.J. TRAHAN:  I think so, yeah.  Obviously the conditions were much more difficult today.  We had winds, the winds picked up pretty nicely over there.  So, again, like I said, you just have to try and, you know, feel it and play good golf shots and see what happens.  Stick to your game plan sort of thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT