CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 1, 2005
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Again, as I announced earlier, 54 hole leaders KJ Choi and D.J. Trahan are both the winners of the Crestor Charity Challenge.  Each of them will get $25,000 to give to a healthcare charity of their choice.  In addition, the Victory Junction Gang Camp will receive $50,000 from the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro and Crestor.  Congratulations.
D.J. TRAHAN:  Yes, that's fantastic.  It's nice to be a leader, but it's also nice to be a part of something like that.  To be honest with you, I didn't even think about being in the lead or who I would give the money to.  I've got to figure it out.  What an exciting thing, to be able to give back some money.  I know any of the guys out here have been a part of it this year after the third round with a lead will tell you that it's wonderful to be able to give back.

We want to thank Crestor for always wanting to give back.  I guess everybody knows, that's what the PGA TOUR is all about.  We're approaching a billion dollars in charity.  I know I've only been out here this first year, but what an amazing number, an amazing amount of money to be able to give back to communities, healthcare, just to help people who are less fortunate than all of us.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.  On top of that, just talk about that finish you had on the backside.  You were on fire.
D.J. TRAHAN:  I felt like I was just plodding along all day.  I played really solid golf all day.  Birdied the 1st hole right out the gate with a 25 footer.  I started thinking, okay, that's great, let's get going.  Kind of just hit a wall there, just made a ton of pars.  I'm thinking to myself, geez, you keep giving yourself these opportunities.  Finally I broke through there on 13, the par 5.  Then it just got interesting after that.

I missed a short one on 14, so I was kind of kicking myself for that.  But 15, knock it on in two, 2 putted there.  Then 16 speaks for itself.  I hit a great drive, had about 165 to the hole, I believe, and just crushed an 8 iron.  I hit it just like I wanted to.  I was telling the guys on TV, it was funny because Justin Rose was 60, 70 yards behind me maybe, he hit a shot from the same spot right behind me, never left the flag stick, too.  I'm yelling 'go in' for his.  I turn around, hit the same shot, actually knock it in the hole.  What a well played hole.  It was a shame he couldn't knock in the three on top of my two.  It would have been a great hole.  I couldn't believe it.  You never expect to make a two.  You're thinking about making birdies.  Have that kind of surprise, it's quite nice.

Then the birdie on 17, I'm sorry, just a 5 iron and a 12 footer, a little right to left, played it just outside the hole.  That was great.  I think a lot of times you get caught up with what you've just done.  You're so excited from something magical like that happening, you kind of get caught up in the moment.  It's hard to settle down sometimes.  I was really proud of myself for getting over there.  It was kind of nice because we had to wait a minute on the group in front of us.  To be able to calm down and gain my composure and play 17 that well, I was very happy about that.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  When is the last time did a Hale Irwin?
D.J. TRAHAN:  That's a lot of my family, my mom and my dad and a lot of friends.  What can I say?  When you make a two on a par 4, I mean, if you just stand there and don't do anything, I think something's wrong with you, you know (smiling).  I probably would have ran around some more if I didn't think it would have made me look stupid.

It's not like I'm way back in the pack.  Geez, I'm trying to get up there and catch the leaders.  Something like that, I mean, that's magical, man.  That's something you live for right there.  So I had to.  I had to go throw a couple hugs and a couple high fives in.  I didn't want to leave the family out, you know (smiling).

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Speaking of family and friends, I think there will be a lot of Clemson people following you tomorrow.
D.J. TRAHAN:  I hope so.  I heard we're up right now.  We were getting our butts kicked in the first half.  I'm stoked.  I want to go watch the game.  Why are you guys keeping me here (laughter)?

Hopefully the Tigers pull it out today.  I was more nervous about that on the golf course than I was about playing.  But, yeah, that would be great.  If there's a bunch of Clemson folks out here tomorrow, we got four of us that made the cut.  I haven't seen how everybody else played.  Hopefully they played well.  We'll get a lot of Clemson support tomorrow.  That would be nice.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions.
Q.  Jason was saying he was keeping track of that Alabama game.
D.J. TRAHAN:  They're killing 'em.  Alabama is killing Florida.
Q.  Did you know what was going on in your game?
D.J. TRAHAN:  I did.  I actually had a couple friends of mine who had the ear phones.  They were helping me keep track.  I was trying to keep my mind focused on golf.  Man, I sure was disappointed hearing those first half scores while we were playing the Back 9.  It was brutal.
Q.  Does that help you any?
D.J. TRAHAN:  Oh, I was mad.  Absolutely.  I was fired up.  I was thinking to myself, if they can't sack it up, I need to.  But they are now.  That's great.  I'm happy they're winning.  Hopefully they'll keep it up.
Q.  What is it going to take tomorrow?
D.J. TRAHAN:  Low.
Q.  How low do you have to go?
D.J. TRAHAN:  I don't want to make any predictions because you can always predict, but you never know.  If the conditions stay the same, I imagine it's going to take the same thing you saw on the board today:  5, 6, 7 under minimum.  Being in the final round, pressure being up, sometimes that maybe gets guys a little tense off the start.  Somebody gets off to a quick start, gets out of the gates quick, I mean, I think there's going to be some low scores tomorrow, absolutely.
Q.  Looked like you were high fiving your parents, then you went down, there was a young lady in a white T shirt.
D.J. TRAHAN:  The little short one.  That's my girlfriend.  I couldn't see her.  She was hiding.  She was the last one to get a hug.  Save the best for last.  It's funny, I didn't even see her.  My buddy goes, "Hey, you forget somebody."  I was like, "There you are."

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT