CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
September 30, 2005
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome D.J. Trahan, who had a 69 in the second round of the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro, following up that 65 through yesterday.  10 under par through two rounds, two behind the leader heading into the weekend.  A very good position to be.
D.J. TRAHAN:  I think so, yeah.  I made two mistakes today.  Really the only two things I felt I've done in two days that, you know, it's a mental error.  But other than that, I've played great golf and I'm happy to be where I am.  I certainly feel like I should be a little bit better if I was just smart enough not to pull the clubs I did on those two holes.

Hopefully I learned from those mistakes and won't let that happen again.
TODD BUDNICK:  You mentioned yesterday you were bogey free.  Today the only two look like shots off the tee on No. 3 and No. 11.
D.J. TRAHAN:  Yeah.  You know, 3 was playing downwind today and I just didn't think on that tee box and pulled 3 wood, hit it right down the right center of the fairway.  The water comes in down there.  It went right in the water and made bogey there.

11, playing a little downwind off the tee as well.  There's no need to hit driver.  I got a little aggressive and pulled driver there, pushed it out right.  It actually hit a tree and went out of bounds.  I didn't block it out of bounds; I kind of got a bad break.  Those things happen.  I like to think that probably happened because I needed to hug the right side and I pushed it just enough to catch the tree there.  Of course, the bad break led to the double.

It's just poor decision making on the tee box.  No need to hit that much club.  You can still have a mid to short iron at the most into those greens if you lay back and hit something a little bit less.
TODD BUDNICK:  You follow up the double with a par and then three birdies.  Came back strong.
D.J. TRAHAN:  Absolutely.  It was nice to be able to do that.  It's always a little discouraging when you make a bad decision and make a bogey like that to come back with birdies.  Two of those were par 5s, I knocked on in two on both of those holes.  Either way you look at it, you got to hit good shots to get there in two.  I was pleased to come back strong after that and finish the round well.
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions.
Q.  How bad did you want the birdie on 18?
D.J. TRAHAN:  I always want to finish off strong.  You know, I hit a great drive.  I busted it.  Probably the best drive I hit all day.  Then I had just a little wedge in there.  To hit it in there 12 feet...  It's a tough pin.  The backside of that green on the right, it really slopes.  Late in the afternoon, the greens have dried up a little bit.  They're a little crusty.  Tough to putt them.

What can I say?  I hit three good shots and made four.  Not much you can do about that.
Q.  You've been in contention before on the weekend.  Do you do anything different this weekend?
D.J. TRAHAN:  You always want to say you try to learn from past experiences.  I'm just going to try to, you know, build on what I've done.  Like you said, I've had a couple opportunities this year, and I'd like to look back on those and see if I can't learn something.  I'm just going to stick to my game plan.

I've got a solid look at the golf course.  When I set up what I wanted to do, it's worked great, it's worked to a T.,  except for like I said, the two mental errors I made today, other than that, it's been great.  I've executed it well.
Q.  Justin Rose said you can't really chase it; you have to let the win happen.  Is that kind of the mindset you have to have?
D.J. TRAHAN:  I think so, yeah.  I'm definitely of the same opinion as him.  We both have won golf tournaments before.  I don't care what level you're at, if you've won, you know how to win.  You just have to be able to relax and take it one shot at a time.  When he says "chasing," I think he means you're thinking too much ahead, you're thinking, "Oh, God, if I play well today, I'll put myself in position to win."  Going into the final round, all you can think about that morning is how bad you want to win.  You can't think about that stuff.  You can think about that stuff when you're walking down 18 fairway with a three shot lead.  That's when you start thinking about what a win actually is.  You don't think about that stuff on Thursday, so why should you think about it on Saturday or Sunday?  You just got to play golf and let it happen.
Q.  You seem to be communicating with some of the people following you the last couple days, talking to them.  Is that normal for you?  Will you be able to do that on the weekend?
D.J. TRAHAN:  I mean, I've got some friends up here, some people that I know very well.  Absolutely.  I mean, if I happen to be walking down the side of the fairway or something, those guys are following, I've got no problem talking with my friends.

I'll probably keep it    same as today.  Every so often, I went and chatted with some friends.  It's nice to have those people there.  It's nice to be close to home.  Like I said yesterday, I think it comes with a certain added comfort level when you're close to home.  It just makes things a little bit easier on you.
Q.  Can you tell me, I believe it's you, is your tailor from Greensboro?
D.J. TRAHAN:  My tailor?
Q.  Yes.
D.J. TRAHAN:  Jay Criztoff is the name of the clothier.  He's made some pants for me.  They're great.  I appreciate what he's done very much.  I guess what they say is if you    you got to look the part before you can play the part, right (smiling)?  Hopefully I'm looking halfway decent out there.
Q.  How did you get hooked up with him?
D.J. TRAHAN:  I actually got hooked up with him through my agent.  It's been nice.  I called him up and I said, "I'm looking for somebody to make me some pants."  He got in touch with the guy, Jay Criztoff.  They've been making me some good pants, so I'm very pleased.  Off the hook question.
Q.  Do many players have tailors?
D.J. TRAHAN:  A lot of guys probably have guys in their hometowns.  I never    I hadn't found anybody in my hometown.  I just asked my agent if he knew anybody.  He came up with this guy.  I don't know how they had gotten in contact.

I guess that's part of the job of an agent.  Not just signing deals, but if you ask them to do something, hopefully they got an answer.  You're paying them good money to do those things, so hopefully    he's great, man.  He hooked me up with this guy.  It's been a good little thing.  I'm pleased.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go over your card.  The birdie on 2.
D.J. TRAHAN:  Yeah, 2.  Just drove it    I actually drove it down the right side.  The whole side of the fairway kicks right to left.  It actually kicked into the first cut.  Wasn't able to get to the green in two because of that.  Was about 30 yards short of the green just in the rough.  Made a great up and down.  It's kind of a downhill shot to that front right pin there.  I hit a great pitch in there about 10 feet and made that.

Of course, the bogey on 3, I hit 3 wood right into the water over there on the right.

Where was my other birdie?
TODD BUDNICK:  5.
D.J. TRAHAN:  5, actually was great.  A little 2 iron right in the middle of the fairway.  I almost holed it for from 95 yards.  That was pretty cool.  I mean, I think it literally went right over the edge of the cup.  I had about six inches or something there.  I tapped in there.

Then the birdie on 9 was right in front of the green in two.  I pitched up to about four and a half, five feet, and knocked that one down.

I guess we've already gone over the double on 11, hitting the driver a little right, catching the trees.

Birdie on 13 was a 3 wood, 3 wood on the green, then 2 putted for birdie from probably 45 feet.  It was actually a really tricky putt.  They had the pin over there on the left side today.  That big swale on the left side of the green played a big part with anybody that hit it past the hole.  I was really happy to get out of there with 4 because it was a really brutal putt.

14, driver, 9 iron about 10 feet, 12 feet, holed that.  That was just a really solid hole.

15, driver, 3 iron right to the back fringe, another 2 putt for birdie.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, D.J.
D.J. TRAHAN:  Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT