THE HERITAGE
April 22, 2011
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on your round today?  
 DJ TRAHAN: Just as I said before, I played extremely well. I put myself in the right positions to score. I left a few out there, but I played excellent for two days. I can't complain about anything.  
  
  Q. Your year, you started a little rough then you had a great finish at the Arnold Palmer, is it coming around?  
 DJ TRAHAN: It's coming around. I spent two weeks off at home the last two weeks, and I've been furious with myself for the way I played. I worked hard on my game. I think I got a little lackadaisical and nonchalant, and it certainly showed. But you can't really complain out here. You have to keep it between the ropes and keep it in between the pine trees. I needed to work on my ball-striking. I did that. It's one of those things sometimes you just have to take a look at the entire game.  
  
  Q. Is there anything that helped you focus more?  
 DJ TRAHAN: No, I don't think so. You can't relax on this golf course, it's too hard. Obviously I really enjoy being here. I love the area. I grew up here. That certainly gets me up a little bit. The golf course, you really have to focus out there.  
  
  Q. The demand of this course, being so tight, calling for good ball-striking, would you have predicted you would be bogey-free on 36 holes?  
 DJ TRAHAN: Why not? You're always trying to make pars and birdies. Obviously you're pleased with not making bogeys, but the chance of not doing it is highly unlikely on this golf course. If I can do that the next few days, you know, it should be good. It would be nice to make some more birdies on the card.  
  
  Q. Where does this tournament rank in importance?  
 DJ TRAHAN: It's like the fifth major to me. I don't want to put it ahead of THE PLAYERS, but I grew up here. They call THE PLAYERS the fifth major. If I won this tournament, it would mean almost as much as winning a championship.  
  
  Q. Is that a belly putter?   
 DJ TRAHAN: It's not a belly putter. I'm not belly putting.  
  
  Q. Longer grip?  
 DJ TRAHAN: It's a longer putter, and it's something I actually started this week. I was belly putting for about a month and kind of experimenting. But I need to make more putts, plain and simple. I'm not going to put any pressure on it. I'm hitting the ball great, I'm going to keep trying to make putts and hopefully some more will go in.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT