CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2010
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. D.J., just kind of marching around the golf course until you hit 13, 14 and 15 and then you put a three-birdie run and in that pack of players a three-birdie run gets you going.
 D.J. TRAHAN: Yeah, this golf course obviously -- Roland played great with 9-under, but that round is typically not out here. If you shoot anywhere from 4 to 6-under out here, you've played some pretty decent golf. 
 And I've struggled a little bit from tee to green this week. I haven't hit the ball poorly, but I haven't been 100 percent comfortable in my ball striking. I've scored well, I've played well. If I've missed shots, I've missed them in the right places, and I've been consciously trying to think about that, too, because on these greens out here, there's a lot of mounding. The greens are kind of humpback a little bit on this Magnolia course, so you really need to make sure you get on the right side of the hole, and I was able to do that.
 And just played a pretty solid round, and like you said, coming down that stretch of three holes, just played them really solid and was able to get three birdies and get in at 4-under.

 Q. You played very well, very quietly, but very well the last six weeks or so starting with the Viking.
 D.J. TRAHAN: Yeah. You know, I had third there and then I finished fifth over in Malaysia, and I've been knocking at the door a little bit this year. I've had eight Top 10s. It's been a solid year for me. I'm a little disappointed that I haven't gotten myself in contention a little bit more, but it's been a solid year all around, and you know, I think if I can get the putter going a little bit better here in the future, things will -- I'll certainly be able to get in contention a little bit more. That's kind of what's held me back.

 Q. Four of the last five winners here were seven shots back after 36. Does that give you a smile -- yeah, that gets you smiling a little bit.
 D.J. TRAHAN: Yeah. Well, that's a nice stat. But obviously unless Roland helps us out a little bit, it's going to take some great golf to catch him. So obviously he certainly isn't struggling. He's shot seven and 9-under the last two days, so you gotta believe he feels really good about every part of his game right now. 
 Obviously it's tough to play in the lead. There's a little bit more pressure involved when you're playing with the lead. But I'll certainly go out and give it my best, but he certainly is catchable, but I'm sure he likes where he sits right now. 

 Q. You'd trade --
 D.J. TRAHAN: Yeah. Exactly. I'd trade spots with him if he wanted. Exactly. It's doable, but like I said, the way I look at it, I'm going to have to have a heck of a weekend if I'm going to have a chance to win the tournament.

 Q. Well, good luck to having a heck of a weekend. 
 D.J. TRAHAN: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT