ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SMITH & NEPHEW
June 11, 2010
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. D.J., tough one there on last hole, I know, but overall, you're in really good shape after two rounds.
 D.J. TRAHAN: Yeah. I actually played great golf today. I hit a good shot on 11, came up short in the water. I thought it was perfect. That's a tough hole. The wind was blowing pretty hard. I played well. The shot on 18 was by far the worst shot of the day. I made a stupid decision in the fairway there, and overall, I'm playing well. I'm happy to be where I am and hopefully keep it up for two more days.

 Q. Just the way the conditions -- how much different were they today than yesterday?
 D.J. TRAHAN: Tremendously different. The heat was a factor this afternoon. The wind blew pretty hard this afternoon. It seems to be lightening up a bit, but it was tough. When we played 10, 11, 12, 13 in that stretch, it was really blowing hard. 
 That's a tough stretch of golf holes. The golf course had some teeth today and certainly will anytime it blows. It's not a very easy golf course when you factor wind into the equation.

 Q. At this event, what kind of history do you have?
 D.J. TRAHAN: I haven't had any history here. I haven't played that well here in the past. I've always liked the golf course. I think it's just been a matter of mere putting. I hit the ball here and haven't putted well. I've been working on my putter. It's always what holds me back. I'm putting well this week. I've had some good thoughts going through my head, and hopefully, as I said, I can just keep doing it for a couple more days.

 Q. You're in a good position to be in for the weekend?
 D.J. TRAHAN: I'm very disappointed with the terrible shot I hit on the last. I've made some nice putts the first two days and hit the ball well. Obviously, it's tough to go low here. It can be done, but it's very difficult to do. I'm in good position, two shots back right now and looking forward to the next two days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT