ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 26, 2010
D.J. Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Very well done halfway through. 
 D.J. TRAHAN: I went and saw Scotty at the studio and had a new putter made and revamped my setup. It wasn't so much a stroke issue with me. It was fundamentals. So I've been working really hard on fundamentals. Putting has been a lot better and that's really been the difference. The six years I've been on TOUR, the weeks I've made putts I've played well. It's really never been an issue with ball-striking for me. It's all a matter of getting the ball in the hole.
 It's been great since then. I went out and Top-10'ed at the Hope the next week. I've been very steady. I have not quite hit my stride I would say but I've been playing very steady golf and I'm just trying to get to that point where confidence keeps building up and hopefully I can get into contention. 
 Same as everybody else, the ball is not spinning as much. Obviously it's an adjustment each and every one of us has had to make and obviously it's going to be that way from now on; it's a permanent change.

 Q. Did you ever play with the old --
 D.J. TRAHAN: Of course I did. 

 Q. Even the PING? 
 D.J. TRAHAN: I'm not -- I'm a little older than I look. Yeah, I've seen it all. When I was growing up, we had pure Balata balls where you if I hit a wedge it looked like somebody took a razor to it. I know what the soft ball and grooves feel like. The good news is everybody has to play with it, so the adjustment has to be made and it's a level playing field and that's just the way it goes.

 Q. Do you find a difference on certain kind of grass?
 D.J. TRAHAN: It's hard to say. Obviously we've hit the Florida Swing and we've been playing Bermuda. Overall I expect a lot of spin. Coming out of the fairway you expect a certain amount and coming out of the rough you expect less spin. Obviously different grasses react a little bit differently but overall you're not going to see too much of a difference. 

 Q. On the FedExCup series, do you think the TOUR staff -- inaudible. 
 D.J. TRAHAN: Well, obviously everybody knew that things weren't going to be perfect when it got started and it was going to take trial and error. Yeah, I think each and every year, even after this year, you never know, there could be another change. It certainly is better now than it was the first year I think, and obviously the TOUR is always continuing to try to improve as much as they can. So, you know, they have done that and it's a solid situation we've got with the FedExCup now. 

 Q. Do you feel like more people have a chance at the end? 
 D.J. TRAHAN: Oh, sure, it certainly adds a little bit, because like anybody knows, a guy it that goes in 100th on the FedExCup could have a great playoff and contends to win the FedExCup and have a super playoff. Obviously you want to be as high as you can going into it, that's very advantageous. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT