STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2015
Jerrard Randall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Is it a hamstring?
JERRARD RANDALL: Yeah, I've got a bit of a hamstring, but it's an not excuse for the loss.  I just didn't do enough to win it.
Q. How do you think you played?
JERRARD RANDALL: I don't think I played that well.  I could have done a lot better.  I mean, I'm very explosive, I just couldn't explode like I wanted to tonight.  If I could, I probably would have scored a lot more points.  But it's not an excuse.  You've still got to go out and play.  As a team, we just didn't play well.
Q. When did the hamstring first start bothering you, earlier this week?
JERRARD RANDALL: I mean, I kind of pulled it last week at the UCLA game.  It kind of started bothering me when after that NAU game.  I had a couple big runs and kind of tweaked my hamstring a little bit.  I think I just need to stretch a little better.  That's about it.
Q. You are so explosive and you rely so much on your hammy.  To know that you can't get that top gear going, how frustrating is that?
JERRARD RANDALL: It's really frustrating because there is really nothing I can do about it.  I just didn't want it to pop again.  I didn't want it to be one big play and then I'm out.  So I did what I can with the hamstring.  I mean, I could have done a lot better.  I tried to throw as much as I can, tried to be a better passer, but that didn't work out for me.  So I could have thrown the ball a little better, had a couple bad throws.  I mean it cost points.
Q. How important are the next two games to getting the season back on track?
JERRARD RANDALL: They're very important because they're Pac-12 games, Pac-12 conference games.  So I mean we've just got to come together as a team.  We've got to get better.  I hope it doesn't get in the way from here.  We've just got to reach our peak.  We're a good team, we've just got to get it all together.  Once we put it all together, then we'll do a lot better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT