CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 17, 2020
Caroline Inglis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Caroline, hi.  Thank you so much for your time today.  So just the first question is this is your home course.  How do you feel that this event is actually happening and you're able to play?
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   Yeah, I'm super excited of it's been a crazy, you know, week, week and a half for the state of Oregon with all the fires going on, so I feel really lucky and grateful that we're playing the event, and I can't wait to tee it up.
 Q. And you're sleeping in your own bed I'm guessing?
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   Yeah, my husband and I live in the area, so it's nice to -- it's kind of weird.  It's different than a normal tournament week.  But, yeah, sleeping in my own bed and being able to just have meals at home, it's been really nice this week.
 Q. Growing up here, how different is it this year because of fires?  Have you ever experienced anything like this?
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   It's really different.  I don't think I've ever -- I mean, it gets a little bit hot and there are fires every so often in the summer, but more so in like central Oregon, Bend, that area.
 I don't ever remember a time growing up when it's been this close to home.
 Q. Okay.  Since it is your home course, what about it is so special?  What are you looking forward to this week in terms of maybe a strategy?
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   Yeah, I mean, unfortunately there's no fans.  That would be great, just all the members coming out to watch and everything.
 But I feel really comfortable on the course, so I think that's key for me.
 Strategy-wise, the course is pretty out in front of you.  Just try to hit the fairways.  I think that's key this week.  They've grown the rough up a little bit.
 Definitely putting on this course.  It's one of the shorter courses on tour I would say.  There is going to be a lot of the greens hit, so whoever can make a lot of putts is going to play well.
 Q. And then you are also one of the lucky few who are sponsored by Cambia.
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   Yes.
 Q. How does it feel to actually have this event happen, but also be so close to your sponsors?
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   Yeah, it's great.  Cambia is amazing.  I love them so much, and I feel really lucky to be sponsored by them.  All the people that work there and everyone that I deal with, I know how hard they've worked to make everything happen this week, so I'm super grateful.
 Yeah, fingers crossed that we get to play tomorrow.  Yeah, it'll be great.
 Q. Lastly, from this year, you've done really well.  What part of your game do you feel has been strengthened the most or what do you feel confidence in the most?
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   Yeah, so I actually was out all of last year with a back injury, so coming back it's been really tough getting back into the swing of things and knocking the rust off.
 So I've been -- like I haven't been super confident I don't feel like, but it's slowly getting there, building it up again.
 Yeah, had a good finish at the British Open, which builds a lot of the confidence.  I've been driving the ball really well, hitting fairways, and I think once I can get the putter hot it'll be a pretty good week.
 Q. And lastly, I think you're going to have a lot of fun this week, but what are you going to do just to get all these fires and COVID-19 stuff out of the way just to relax and have fun this week?
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   Yeah, just go home tonight, have a good feel meal, chill, relax.  I'll probably watch the Men's U.S. Open tomorrow morning before my round; I'm in the afternoon.  Just get in that mental head space.  It's another tournament.  I know what to do.  I know how to play and I've played the golf course a few times.
 Q. Thank you so, so much and good luck tomorrow.
 CAROLINE INGLIS:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT