HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 20, 2018
Caroline Inglis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it go out there?
CAROLINE INGLIS: It was good.  I honestly felt like -- I birdied the first hole, so that was a good start, but then after that I couldn't quite get much going, but I made a lot of good, steady pars.  I didn't give myself the best looks for birdie today, so I was kind of just grinding it out.  I had some long putts.  The speed of my putts was really good today, so it was good.
Q. When you're faced with a challenge, when you don't put yourself in like position for good birdie opportunities, how do you stay focused?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah, I just kept telling myself one shot at a time, let's just pick a good target and swing aggressively at it.  You know, just do my best on every shot.  Not getting ahead of myself and just staying calm.
Q. That's awesome.  It's your second year on Tour, and you didn't make any cuts last year, and this year you're --
CAROLINE INGLIS: Well, I only played two events, to be fair.
Q. But 6 for 6 this season --
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah.
Q. What's the secret to that?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Well, last year I had conditional, which was tough, and it was my first year as a professional, so I just think I had no experience, and I feel a lot more comfortable and confident out here now, so that's honestly the different.
Q. Coming from collegiate level to pro, what's been the biggest difference for you?
CAROLINE INGLIS: I think just doing my own thing and not seeing -- because there's so many talented girls out here, obviously.  Not getting caught up in what everyone else is doing, just staying true to me and my game and just kind of taking it one shot at a time and doing my thing.
Q. What are your goals this season?
CAROLINE INGLIS: I keep telling everyone, I really want to make a hole-in-one and win a car.  I know that's stupid.  But no, I mean, I already -- like one of my big goals in the beginning of the season was to make it to the ANA and make the cut, and I did that, so that was awesome.  And maybe I need to reassess and set some new goals, but for now, just keep making cuts and doing my best every day and learning, growing.  Like I was talking to my boyfriend about this yesterday, like I feel like every round and every tournament is such a new learning experience for me, which is awesome, so just learning and growing as a player.
Q. I read somewhere that faith is really important to you.
CAROLINE INGLIS: Uh-huh.
Q. How does that kind of get you through the tournaments and just the challenge of being away from friends and family?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah, I mean, I think it's always good just to keep in mind that I'm playing for a bigger purpose, just glorifying God and the things he's given me, just being a good person, loving on people around me, and I think it keeps things in perspective.  We have a really good group of fellowship out here, which is so nice to have a group out here of girls like that that have that belief system, as well.
Q. And do you have any mentors or people that help encourage you?
CAROLINE INGLIS: I have so many.  I mean, my swing coach, my college coach, my mom is someone I really look up to.  Yeah, so many people that help me out.  I have a good team behind me, so I'm really lucky.
Q. What are you going to do different about tomorrow's round?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Nothing.  Just do my thing.  Yeah, just -- I'm just -- me and my coach, our motto this week is picking conservative targets and swinging aggressively at them.  Just keep doing what I'm doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT