BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2018
Caroline Inglis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great day today.  4-under.  Now you're 5-under heading into the weekend.  Toward the top of the leaderboard.  Tell us about your day, especially the start.  Looked like birdie, par, birdie, par.
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah, got off to a good start.  I was just -- I hit it to a foot on the 1st hole, so that was a nice start.
Just played really steady.  Hit a lot of greens today.  Yeah, just a solid round.
Q. How does it feel?  This is your sort of your first year, right, on the LPGA Tour?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Uh-huh.
Q. And here you are a couple events in and you're heading into the weekend top of the leaderboard.
CAROLINE INGLIS: Feels great.  I mean, I love it out here.  It's been so fun so far.  I'm just trying to keep it in perspective and just honestly, I know it's cliche, but one shot at a time.
Q. So you won the Marilyn Smith Scholarship as a freshman at Oregon.
CAROLINE INGLIS: Uh-huh.
Q. And you got to meet her this week.  What was that moment like?  What were some of the conversations?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah, that was really special.  She came up to talk to me.  I just gave her a big hug and said, Thank you so much for everything you've done for not only me but women's golf.
She's been such a pioneer for the women's game.  So that was pretty special to meet her.  She's just a sweetheart.
Q. What kind of stood out today?
CAROLINE INGLIS: I just hit it quite a bit closer and made some putts today really was the only difference.
Q. What about the weather?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah, so I was in the afternoon yesterday so it was pretty windy.  It was nice to play in such perfect conditions today.  I felt like I could be a little bit more aggressive.
Q. This is your second start, right?  Pure Silk was your first, or...
CAROLINE INGLIS: I played in Australia.
Q. Oh, you did play in Australia?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah.
Q. Okay.  You had a shoulder issue, right, last year?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah.
Q. Torn labrum?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah.
Q. Did you just play through that?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Uh-huh.
Q. You did.  What was that like last year?
CAROLINE INGLIS: It was fine.  You know, just rehabbed it a lot and it's getting a lot better.  That was helpful.  I got a PRP injection in the off-season right after Q-School.
I have a really great physical therapist, so it's feeling a lot better.
Q. When that happened, they told you it was torn, did they give you options?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah, so I tore it like two years ago.  It's been a long time.  And then probably like May of last year I found out that it was torn in a couple places.  They're small tears, not big.  And I have a cyst in there.
So just a lot going on.  They said you can play, have surgery, rehab it, do an injection.  I have lots of options.
So I was the middle of the season, so I just kind of -- well, my mom is a PT, so it was nice to have someone giving me strengthening exercises.
And then in the off-season I got with someone in Portland and really started working on that more, like more specific exercises.  Saw a doctor.  I was going to have surgery right after Q-School, but then I decided not to because it was feeling a lot better.
Q. So just this last December?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Uh-huh.
Q. How long would you have been out and why did you decide not to have the surgery?
CAROLINE INGLIS: It depends.  I've talked to some girls that have had labral repairs that have been out for like eight months.  That's part of the reason I didn't want to have it.  And also, I felt like it was getting better.
There is just so much going on in the shoulder there was no guarantee it was even going to help.
Q. Is it the right shoulder?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Uh-huh.
Q. How challenging was that, last year especially?  How much did it affect you?
CAROLINE INGLIS: I mean really it was just about limiting the reps.  Quality practice over quantity for me for sure.  Yeah, it was annoying, but it's all good.  It's golf.  It's just hard, you know, body when you're hitting so many golf balls.
Q. Do you have pain in rounds?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Uh-huh.
Q. You're tough.
CAROLINE INGLIS: (Laughter.)  I think every golfer has pain.
Q. But a torn labrum, that's pretty good.  How is it now?
CAROLINE INGLIS: It's a lot better.
Q. But still affects you?  You still feel it?
CAROLINE INGLIS: A little, yeah.
Q. Just gotten used to it?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Probably.  It's been so long.
Q. Did it affect your swing?  Sometimes you hear about players having an injury and they have to swing differently.
CAROLINE INGLIS: I try to not let it affect my swing.  I don't think it did.
Q. In Australia, I think we talked after round one; you found yourself near the top of the leaderboard.  Now this is round two.  You've put together two solid rounds here.  Are you feeling comfortable heading into the weekend?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah, sure.  I think just like I was telling Brett, just really focusing on one shot at a time and not getting ahead of myself and just keep hitting good golf shots, good aggressive shots, and whatever happens.
Just been having fun out here, so it's nice.
Q. If you think back to your first start on the Symetra Tour last year to where you are now as a golfer, do you feel like there has been some significant improvements?
CAROLINE INGLIS: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, I think just like graduating from college and going out on Symetra -- I even played in two LPGA last year -- I didn't feel -- it's not like I felt uncomfortable, it's just so much that's new.  It was just hard to adjust.
Yeah, I think I it was good to get a few starts and start getting competitive out there.  By the middle of the season I felt super comfortable.  It's just a big adjustment from college to professional.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT