NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: WARRIORS v CLIPPERS
April 27, 2014
Mark Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Should the league be more African‑American?   Does this go beyond Donald Sterling?   
COACH JACKSON:   The league has done an outstanding job, so let's not make this a league thing.   The incredible owners and incredible management, incredible coaches, players, organizations, the league office, commissioner, done an outstanding job growing this game and making it as successful and prosperous as it is today.   
I will not make the thoughts of one person seem like the thoughts of an entire league.   At the same time, I will not minimize or be foolish enough to believe that this is just one person, not just in basketball, but in this world, that feels this way.  
There are some extremely successful people that feel the same way.   That's a fact.   And it's unfortunate.   
   
 Q.   Mark, we're obviously talking more than just about basketball today.   Do you find it unfortunate that attention is kind of being drawn away from the action on the court, or do you embrace this opportunity to talk about some deeper issues?   
COACH JACKSON:   To me, it's ministry, so I think it's great to have a platform and to have dialogue about this.   And it exposes some evil.   And I think it's an advantage.   
Now it's time for me, for you, for ownership, for players, for the league, for society, to step up and let's start challenging these folks and let's start putting pressure on these folks, because, like I said, there are people that have lost their lives.   
It's just sad to believe that people feel this way today.   It's unfortunate.  
   
 Q.   There's no question this is a distraction for the Clipper players.   Is it in fact for you and your team as well?  
COACH JACKSON:   It's absolutely a distraction.   But we understand the assignment.   And the challenge is ‑‑ I see people say, well, do you boycott?   No.   You stand up there and you answer questions as an African‑American man and you sound intelligent and you carry yourself and conduct yourself to answer and let people know.   
Don't get it twisted.   You make a statement by who you are, by players on the floor, by Steph Curry and Chris Paul getting after it and still communicating and still calling and texting, by handling yourself with dignity and class.   That's how you respond.   That's how you respond.   
And I think this is an incredible league that's done an outstanding job, regardless of your race, your religion, your beliefs, of prospering and being together and making a statement.  
   
 Q.   Has your team communicated with the players of the Clippers?  
COACH JACKSON:   Not that I know of.   Not that I know of.   
   
 Q.   Mark, do you forgive him?  
COACH JACKSON:   I'm a man that's been forgiven.   That's what I believe in.   Grace and mercy should follow me all the days of my life.   I forgive him.   I forgive anybody who believes or feels that way, and the reason why is we all can be saved, we all can be helped, we can all be changed.   And the first step, though, is admitting that I've got an issue.   
And so absolutely.   There's no hatred in my heart at all.   I'm at peace.  
   
 Q.   If you did not have a job and the Clippers called you today under these circumstances to offer you something, would you work for them right now?   
COACH JACKSON:   That's a great question.   I cannot right now.   Knowing the mentality, I cannot.   
With that being said, let me double back.   There are people, successful people, who would answer that question and say no that's working for folks today.   
   
 Q.   There might be questions on the other topic, but on a basketball question you have mentioned a lineup change possibility.   Are you in fact going to make one in the lineup?   Is Draymond Green going to be starting?  
COACH JACKSON:   I'm still thinking about it and going to make a decision relatively soon.   But I think our biggest issue is getting back to who we are as a team and playing our way, taking care of the basketball.   
So whoever is in the lineup we've got to get back to our principles.   
But I'm still thinking about it, haven't made a decision that I'm ready to go with just yet.   Thank you very much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT