NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: WARRIORS v CLIPPERS
April 24, 2014
Mark Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Mark, are you happy with what you guys are executing defensively on Blake and he's just that good right now, or are you not really happy with what you're getting defensively on him? 
MARK JACKSON:   He's playing at a high level right now.   He's making plays, making shots.   We forced him to be a jump shooter, and he's making jump shots.   On the block he's aggressive, he's having an outstanding series capping off an outstanding year.   I mean, we've given him different looks.   He's making some tough shots.

Q.   Mark, do you think your guys are flinching a little bit offensively inside?   It seems there are shots inside and they're just kind of throwing it at the rim when DeAndre Jordan is around. 
MARK JACKSON:   Well, you're right.   I thought Klay did a great job of attacking his body and finishing.   Other than that, I think we're doing a bad job of forcing him to make plays.   If you allow him to be an athlete, he's going to disrupt it.   He does a great job of blocking shots and altering shots.   We've got to go to his body and eliminate his athletic ability.   Give him credit, but we certainly have to do a better job.   I think the one guy that attacked him was Klay.

Q.   Will you expect to see more of Green covering Blake? 
MARK JACKSON:   He did an outstanding job.   That was part of the plan coming into the series.   He made some shots with Draymond also.   But he's playing at a high level.   We're going to give him different looks and have different bodies on him.

Q.   Coach, the Warriors missed a lot of three‑pointers tonight.   How much of that was the Clippers closing out really well, and how much of that was having an off shooting night? 
MARK JACKSON:   I thought the best closeout of the night was the last shot.

Q.   So you went small and you made this run in the fourth quarter.   Do you feel like you could have gone small earlier and gotten better results? 
MARK JACKSON:   No, we were not playing well.   We turned the basketball over too much.   We just got out of character.   I thought we tried to do too much at times offensively instead of trusting our offense.   We were just on edge a little bit.   The point was we settled down, and that's when we began to make a run.

Q.   Were you guys going for the win there at the end? 
MARK JACKSON:   We were going for a high‑percentage shot.   Steph was looking to turn the corner.   Chris did a good job putting the hands on him, and then when he went up for the shot, I mean, he's supposed to be able to come down.

Q.   You spent some time on the court afterwards, a long time talking to the refs.   Were you exchanging words with Chris Paul there yourself too? 
MARK JACKSON:   No, no, no.

Q.   Your assistants?   Was there something? 
MARK JACKSON:   Well, that's Chris and one of my assistants have since Game 2 had some dialogue.   They cleaned it up.   Just competing, that's all.

Q.   Do you think that should have been a foul? 
MARK JACKSON:   Well, he's supposed to be able to land.   Clearly he wasn't able to.   I'm not looking for an apology tomorrow though.

Q.   There was a stretch in the first half where Blake and Darren Collison were at the same time in at the same time.   Was there any consideration to shifting a little bit to put Stephen and Collison in more frequently? 
MARK JACKSON:   No, I'm trying to understand where you're going with that.   I don't think Collison has been the problem, with all due respect.   I don't understand the question.   I'm not going to tell them my substitutional patterns to Darren Collison, with all due respect.   He's doing a great job of picking up full court and trying to be disruptive, but I don't think that's been a problem for us, especially tonight.

Q.   Coach, it got pretty chippy in the third quarter and physical at the end of the game.   Can you talk about your comfort level with the physicality and the calls and maybe the state of the rivalry right now? 
MARK JACKSON:   Well, two teams going at it, competing at a high level.   I thought tonight was a battle.   They put together a great run.   We fought back in.   Down the stretch I thought we were in position to make the plays.   I thought Draymond takes the hit with the second on the shot clock, and then Steph to end the ballgame. 
But these are two teams that it's going to be a long series.   We've already talked about that.   You look now and say, well, they've taken home court advantage.   Our job is to take care of Sunday because we've proven that we can go there and win.

Q.   6 for 31 on three‑pointers.   Was it just a bad shooting night or bad shot selection?   What would you chalk that up to? 
MARK JACKSON:   I thought we got some great looks.   89‑86, Klay gets a wide‑open shot, misses it.   Overall I thought we got some good looks.   I would say a bad shooting night.   That's off the top of my head.   When I take a look at the film, it will be hopefully the same opinion.   But right now going back I thought we got some very good looks.

Q.   Coach, how would you assess the state of the series right now?   You mentioned that you guys missed some open shots.   They hit some pretty crazy shots.   Are you feeling like you're right there and you need to keep doing what you're doing a little better or do you feel there need to be changes made? 
MARK JACKSON:   No, I feel like we're in character.   When we defend at a high level and execute and take care of the basketball it shows that we're tough to beat, and that's been consistent in this series also. 
Where we've had problems is where we've gotten out of character.   We've turned the basketball over.   We've taken bad shots.   We've allowed them to get it going in transition.   We've gone away from game plan discipline.   We're not good enough to do that and win.   When we do what we're supposed to do, what we've done from day one is proven that we're going to be tough to beat.

Q.   A series like this is always about making adjustments from game to game.   Can you still take things that you did well in Game 1 and build on those or do you need to look for the next thing? 
MARK JACKSON:   No, no, no.   You figure out the things that you've been able to do and be successful with, not just in Game 1, in Game 2 and in Game 3, even in a loss.   There are things that you look at and say, well, this was effective.   We made adjustments tonight and got some good looks off adjustments that were made. 
So I think when you look at the series overall, as a coach, it's a chess match.   You've got to continue to add and pick and choose what works, what does not work, what do they defend well, and how can we be most effective individually and collectively? 

Q.   When L.A. had the ball, they got a lot of three, four, sometimes five looks with the rebounds.   Were you upset with the rebounding tonight? 
MARK JACKSON:   Well, they got 14 offensive rebounds, we had 18.   We outrebounded them tonight.   I don't think it was the same as it's been.   I thought we did a good job keeping bodies on guys, especially when we made the run.   When we went small, as crazy as it sounds, we put bodies on guys.   We rebounded with a sense of urgency, so I was very pleased with that.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT