NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: SPURS v WARRIORS
May 10, 2013
Mark Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Do you have a guesstimate right now about how bad Curry's ankle is?
COACH JACKSON:   No, not right now.   Just sprained the left one.   Icing it.   Get treatment.   We'll see where he's at. 

Q.   Coach, what made you confident to keep him in the game at that time the way he was limping?
COACH JACKSON:   Well, he said he could make it, which did occur, I took him off the ball.   Just trusted that he said he was okay. 

Q.   Mark, 5 for 17 from the floor for Steph.   Was that something that they did defensively or was that just a bad night for him?
COACH JACKSON:   Missed shots.   Give them credit.   They did a good job defensively.   He missed shots. 
This is a make‑or‑miss league.   That's all. 

Q.   What was the thinking getting David in at the time you did?   He gave you what you wanted?   Could you not put him in in the second half?
COACH JACKSON:   He gave us a lift in that first half.   I thought, watching him run the last time, you know, he didn't have the same bounce.   I just didn't want to chance it. 
I thought he played outstanding.   Gave us an incredible boost.   But I didn't like the way he was running on the last trip.   The game got tight.   Didn't want to put him in that situation. 

Q.   You have been doing a good job containing Tony Parker in the first two games.   He got loose for a lot of points in this game.   What changed?   Was it something you were doing or he was doing?
COACH JACKSON:   We didn't pay attention to detail.   He's a heck of a basketball player.   Even after winning Game2, this is going to be a heavyweight championship fight.   That's a different animal that we're going against.   They have four future Hall of Famers.   They're not going to lie down.   They're going to bounce back individually and collectively. 
That's exactly what he did, that first half he got it going.   We didn't stay as connected as we had the first two games.   Got uncontested jumpers.   We'll live with him shooting jumpers but not uncontested ones. 
We made the adjustment the second half and he didn't hurt us.   But he's a heck of a basketball player.   He's a guy with great pride, and he came back and had a huge game. 

Q.   You were very confident after the Game1 situation.   Properly so.   Is this a little tougher to take because it was home?
COACH JACKSON:   They out‑played us, out‑worked us.   They were the aggressor.   That being said, we're still a confident basketball team.   We talked about it.   That team is very capable of coming into our building and beating us.   They did that. 
We have proven that we're capable of going into their building and beating them.   If we don't play our brand of basketball, we are not good enough to just win.   There were some good things tonight.   Then there were some things we certainly got to do better. 
But this series is far from over. 

Q.   Coach, both Curry and Thompson had relatively off nights.   Can you talk about what the team faces when the two of them aren't stepping forward. 
COACH JACKSON:   You know, we don't look at it that way.   This is a make‑or‑miss league.   We look at it like we did not defend at the level that we defend.   They shoot 50% from the field.   We turned the basketball over, gave them 20 points off of turnovers.   That's what cost us the ballgame. 
We have not won ballgames, wound up with a 6 seed, advanced to the second round because of Steph Curry and Klay Thompson's ability to shoot the basketball.   We win on the defensive end.   That's where we lost it tonight. 

Q.   It's easy to say when shots don't go in, things don't look energetic.   Do you think maybe the legs were a little heavy in this one?
COACH JACKSON:   Correct.   We did not have the same energy.   We did not get after it the same way.   We did not have the sense of urgency.   That's the disappointing part. 
We own it.   We must make the proper adjustments. 

Q.   They always seemed to find the open man.   They spaced the floor so well.   Are they the toughest team to defend because of that?   Almost looks boring to watch, but it's so efficient. 
COACH JACKSON:   We talked about it.   They execute you to death.   They got a lot of ball movement and man movement.   They're unselfish.   They're disciplined.   That's who they are.   They've been that way for a long time.   They've won a lot of ballgames that way. 
But we are more than capable of defending the actions when we have game plan discipline.   If you don't, that's a team that will make you pay the price, and they certainly did that tonight. 

Q.   You've been here before with Steph.   How do you evaluate him from here?   Also such a short turnaround.   What do you do if he's not able to go?
COACH JACKSON:   Same as usual.   He'll get treatment.   We'll see how that responds.   Hopefully he's ready to play. 
If not, credit again to our ownership and our management group, Bob Myers, outstanding job of going to get Jarrett Jack.   We will give him the basketball and trust that we'll be just fine. 
Hopefully Steph is ready.   If not, we got guys more than capable of going out and getting us a win. 

Q.   I know you haven't looked at the tape yet.   Kind of your initial impressions with Tony, was it the weak side that wasn't getting there in time or... 
COACH JACKSON:   We were not as sharp on ball pressure.   The big guy setting the screen wasn't close enough.   He got the airspace and got it going.   Once he got it going, he's a different guy to defend. 
We've got to be better individually and collectively.   I thought the last game people rave about the defense that Klay Thompson played.   It was a thing of beauty.   But it's about the guys behind him, too, putting him in position to play that type of defense.   We just was not as sharp tonight.

Q.   Having seen what you saw of David tonight, are you going to give him more run next game?
COACH JACKSON:   Again, I'll stay true to process.   I'll see how he feels.   Haven't had an opportunity to talk to him yet.   How he feels now, how he feels tomorrow, make a decision based on that. 
But I will not put a crazy demand on his body.   That's not going to happen. 

Q.   Steph played 58 minutes in the first game, had two off‑shooting nights in the next two games.   Is there any connection between going a long time in Game1 and the off‑shooting nights?
COACH JACKSON:   No.   He missed shots.   That's what it boils down to. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT