MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 21, 2000
Jose Canseco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  As an opponent of Roger Clemens', before you became his teammate, what was your perception of him?
 
JOSE CANSECO: Well, a very intimidating-style pitcher, very large guy, extremely hard.  I faced him in his early years when he was with Boston, through the upper '90s.  He has a very hard slider, cutter.  I became teammates with him.  Great, great guy.  I get along with him.  Pretty good golfer, too.  Played against him, too.  That split he throws, I think he's become an even better pitcher.  
 

Q.  Having not had a meaningful at-bat in several weeks, close to a month now, how hard is it to get your timing?
 
JOSE CANSECO: I have no idea, to tell you the truth.  Partly, like going through Spring Training again.  It's going to be probably extremely difficult.  
 

Q.  Could you talk a little bit about being in the World Series at this stage of your career, and despite the first half of last year, what the injuries may have taken away from you and what you still have left?
 
JOSE CANSECO: Physically, I'm probably about 90 percent right now, even though my calf is not 100 percent healed.  I started running hard sprints in Oakland.  I ran anywhere on the 40-yard from a 4.4 to a 4.7, whatever that averages out to be. My legs aren't at 100 percent yet, I know, physically.   I'm 36 years old, keep myself in great shape.  Made a mistake in the off season, came in too heavy, came in at 260 pounds.   I tore my hamstring during Spring Training.  Tried to play through it, tried to compensate for the pain in the leg, and damaged my left foot.  My left foot's probably 90 percent healed right now.  My calf is giving me a little bit of problems, but I can still run well.  During the off season, I'm going to work different.  Get back to when I was younger, a long time ago.  I'll probably come back 235, 245.  
 

Q.  Is it strange for you being a guy with the resume you have, with more than 400 career home runs, perhaps headed for the Hall of Fame, to be hoping you get at-bats?
 
JOSE CANSECO: It's extremely difficult.  It definitely is.  Obviously, it's a great thing to be in the World Series, but I've been that type of guy for 15 years.  As an everyday player, I know I've had quite a few injuries.  But once I'm healthy, I get in the line-up and hope I can help the team apply pressure on the opposing pitchers, whether it's standing at the plate or stealing a base.  I'm healthier than I've been in a long time.  It's definitely tough playing right now, knowing what type of player I am, how much impact I can have on a game.  It's part of the game right now.  I'll do the best possible.  
 

Q.  You're not getting to contribute a lot at this point.  Can you speak just to the journey of getting here after spending the first half of the year with a last-place team?
 
JOSE CANSECO: It's definitely different, nothing much about it.  Definitely coming to an organization where it's been a winning organization for ever, really, an organization that commands a whole lot of respect  -- great players here.  Obviously, when I was in the line-up, I didn't feel like I had to carry the whole team.  There were so many players around me, I felt like,  "Just be yourself out there. If they're going to walk you, go ahead and take a base."  My leg wasn't ready at that time, so I couldn't steal bases.  But I felt like you've got so many great players here that it's really going to help you out.  Obviously, next year the team has the decision on my contract.  Whether they exercise it or not, it's going to be up to the Yankees. 
 

Q.  You have quite a bit of World Series experience.  What did you learn from the years '88 to '90, and what were your favorite World Series moments from that time?
 
JOSE CANSECO: Basically learning experience.  Don't let your emotions, don't let your adrenaline get the best of you.  You really have to come up with a controlled attitude.  Obviously, the World Series of '89, which we actually won, but it took a little bit away from it because it was that earthquake in '89 when it did happen, but we finally won, so I was excited.  
 

Q.  Could you talk about being El Duque's teammate after having been his opponent? Have you talked about Cuba at all and your roots?
 
JOSE CANSECO: We sat down and spoke about Cuba on one of those West Coast flights, he told me quite a few things about over there which were amazing.  I'm Cuban-born.  I came over when I was about nine months old.  I don't know Cuba as well as El Duque, who lived it.  It's great having him as a teammate.  We've spoken a lot about Cuba, his lifestyle, what he had to go through there.  
 

Q.  How many times do you remember, if ever, Roger coming up-and-in on you? Was that something you had to be conscious of as a hitter? Does that help him on the mound?
 
JOSE CANSECO: Actually, that's the way he pitches.  I've known Roger for a long time.  He came up-and-in on me one time.  I started laughing.  You have to pitch that way.  I think in order to be an intimidating pitcher, to establish that part of the plate now and then, to anyone, really you have to throw that pitch.  As an opposing pitcher at the time, our team actually saw that he had done that to me, and they were thinking,  "Boy, if he does it to his friend, he can do it to any one of us." That kind of sends an indirect message. 
 

Q.  As somebody who was in the Oakland-San Francisco Series and the rivalry being so close to each other, now you're in this atmosphere here.  How is it different? How is it the same?
 
JOSE CANSECO: Well, I haven't been around long enough to understand the rivalry here.  I wasn't around when the Mets Series took place, and I guess Piazza got hit by Roger Clemens' fastball.  I don't really understand it, haven't really sat down with anyone and spoken about it.  But I guess it's great for the game.  It's exciting, I guess.  
 

Q.  You didn't really talk about your own emotions being in this.  Do you feel like a veteran player getting another shot at a World Series? Are you excited? Do you feel a total part of this team yet? What do you think the future holds for you?
 
JOSE CANSECO: Feeling part of the team, it's extremely difficult right now for me.  Obviously, even when I'm playing day in, day out, if I don't perform, I really don't feel like I'm part of the team.  Obviously, right now they're giving me the opportunity.  It's difficult to feel like you're part of the team.  I definitely root for the team, pull for them, give them high-fives when they get base hits or the pitcher has a great outing.  Basically at this point in my career, that's all you can do.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT