U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2014
Marco Dawson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARCO DAWSON: Just a continuation of yesterday's round, I guess.  Heaven forbid you miss a fairway because chances are something bad is going to happen. So, in my case, I hit it in some greenside bunkers, fairway bunkers and basically had to chip out and yesterday I couldn't even chip out on one of the holes, the par 3, and then on 18 ran up the lip and came back down and buried.  So, the best I could do was chip it out.Q. Realistically it's the Senior Open.  You're sitting in a very good position anyway.MARCO DAWSON: Yeah.  I played well.  Even though I was only 2-under, I had it to 5 and, you know, could have been a couple shots better.  You know, the only -- I think the only bad shot I hit on the first 9 holes was an iron shot on the 6th hole and I hit it in the bunker and I didn't get it up and down and then hit -- played the next -- the next par 5 I hit a tee shot and hit the tree out there but, managed to hit whatever shot still on the green and had a good chance for an eagle and left it short and then hit a really good shot on 8.  Got a good up and down own 9. Hit a really good shot on 10, made the putt.  11, missed the putt.  12, let's see, made the putt.  13, you know, hit a -- that was probably the best shot of the day there on 13. 14 -- you know, the tee was so far up I couldn't figure out where to hit it.  Kind of guessing out there.  And then 15 hit two good shots.  It was just tough to figure out the wind. You know, I thought I really hit a good shot on the last hole there.  Kind of a good break/bad break.  Could have gone over the hill, down that hill or it could have gone back down towards the hole but kind of managed to stay in between.  Was a difficult 2-putt.Q. Do you hang in there with the thoughts that I'm still hitting the ball very well, it's just that sometimes the bounces are not going my way?MARCO DAWSON: Well, yeah, that's kind of how I felt yesterday and kind of fell apart after feeling like whether I hit a good shot or bad shot it was not going to end up good.  Yesterday it was one of those days.  Just didn't -- no matter how good I hit the shot it's not going to end up any good because I've just seen poor results today. So sometimes you get the feeling well, even if I try and hit this in the right spot it may not be the right spot.  So, you know, I hate to say but I think there's -- there is some luck involved where the bounces are. But, it's just a tough course.  There's no run-ups around the greens.  Everything is flat, fly it on the green or just on the fringe and chipping around the green, you know, you've seen it I'm sure, guys using utilities and, you know, chip and runs a lot. There's really not a whole lot in that short, short grass that you can do other than run the ball and then, of course, in the high grass you have to use a lofted club.Q. Is the golf course better to come from behind on or better to try to hold the lead on?MARCO DAWSON: Well, I think anytime you can afford almost -- afford to lose shots you're in a good position.  If you're playing catch up, then you start hitting shots you normally might not hit.  You might force some shots, then you get into trouble. So, I think it's probably better to play with the lead.  I would love to have about a ten shot lead.  Then I could sleep at night and not have to worry about anything.  But, you know, I think the guys, I guess, that are 5-under are going to be -- you know, feel like there's only a handful of guys that are going -- that they have to play against. I think the best score so far is 6-under the first day.  So, you know, unless somebody just gets really hot with the putter and gets some good bounces, you know, the best score may be 4, 5-under tomorrow.Q. You are one of those guys with a chance to.  Good luck.MARCO DAWSON: Thanks


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT