THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 18, 2012
Marco Dawson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Marco, 62.   I think someone was saying perhaps your best round in like 21years, I think nice playing.   Let's get some comments on the day.  
MARCO DAWSON:   I obviously putted well, and I hit my irons really well.   I think I hit two poor tee shots, both of them in the water.   One of them I managed to save par, and the other one I made bogey on, but other than that, it was good from tee to green.   Hit a lot of good iron shots.   Hit it close, too, so it was easier to putt.   
You know, I just made some good putts coming in, you know, since I hadn't really ‑‑ I haven't played well all year, and when I have played decent or had a good round going, I managed to screw it up somehow.   So I kind of got anxious out there a little bit when I got to 6 or 7‑under and I made that bad swing, but then I made two birdies coming back.   Then I hit another poor drive and managed to save par, and I had a good chance on the last hole.   So I kind of gathered myself out there and managed to play in pretty good.   So I had some more chances, but I'm really happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Did you see this coming or preparations for the week?  
MARCO DAWSON:   I kind of did, you know, because pretty much all year I had been playing poorly, and the last three weeks ‑‑ and the reason was due to my iron play early on in the year.   And finally I started playing well with the irons.   I started really hitting well about three or fourweeks ago and the tee ball and the 3‑wood started going south.   
So the last two weeks I just ‑‑ you know, it was one thing and it was another thing and then last week I didn't read the greens very well, so I didn't putt very well and just missed the cut.   
But this week, you know, I got the ball in the fairway and then I was hitting the irons good like I'd been, and I'd been putting pretty good for most of the year, and today I had a really good putting day.   So everything kind of came together today.  
   
 Q.   What's the key when you do go through those tough times in not getting everything out of your game to sort of persevere and stay at it?  
MARCO DAWSON:   You've just gotta analyze it and figure out what was really the problem, and last week it was my putting and the week before it was my tee ball.   And first half of the year it was my iron game.   So I know my irons have been a lot better lately, and I figured last week if I could just get the driver in play.   And I did last week.   I hit the driver and the irons well, but I didn't putt well.   
And so ‑‑ and I kind of had that feeling, you know, when I go out west, it's just hard for me being from Florida to kind of read the greens, tell if I'm going uphill or downhill.   So I hit some putts that really made me look stupid, so to speak, because I misread them so bad.   And so I figured, well, I'm back on Bermuda greens, Bermudagrass.   I'm familiar with that.   And everything ‑‑ I figured out these are the two ‑‑ this week and the week of Disney I should ‑‑ if my game's on, I should play well.  
   
 Q.   And that would be huge coming down ‑‑  
MARCO DAWSON:   That would be huge.   That would be real huge.   So I'm looking forward to doing that.   So I've got a good start so far.  
   
 Q.   Do you watch that money list?  
MARCO DAWSON:   No, I haven't.   I haven't because I'm so far away from it that the only thing I can do is just try and play well, and when I am playing well, just to keep it going instead of kind of messing it up like I have during the year.  
   
 Q.   When you hit it in the water on 7, ShotLink had you at 320 to the green.   Did you just crush that thing or did you get some run or what?  
MARCO DAWSON:   Which shot are you talking about?   
   
 Q.   After taking the drop on ‑‑ did you hit it in the water off the tree?  
MARCO DAWSON:   Yeah.   I hit the tree and it came back into the water.  
   
 Q.   And when you took your drop, the thing showed you had 320 left to the green.  
MARCO DAWSON:   Right.  
   
 Q.   Was that a big 3‑wood or no?  
MARCO DAWSON:   No, I hit a utility pole.  
   
 Q.   Really?  
MARCO DAWSON:   I still had 100 yards.  
   
 Q.   You didn't hit it in two?  
MARCO DAWSON:   Oh, no, no, no.  
   
 Q.   I had the little red line into the water, the drop and then 320 to about 20feet.  
MARCO DAWSON:   No, no, no.  
   
 Q.   So you just took six then?  
MARCO DAWSON:   No.   I made the putt for five.  
   
 Q.   How close did you hit it on your wedge?  
MARCO DAWSON:   I was probably 20, 25feet.  
   
 Q.   They just didn't count a stroke.   Nice par.  
MARCO DAWSON:   Yeah.   Good save.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT