WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2008
Marco Dawson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good playing today. When I chatted with you earlier in the week you felt you were right where you wanted to be -- not where you wanted to be but mindsetwise and just talk about the round a little bit today.  
 MARCO DAWSON: I putted really well today. I made a lot of the short putts or 6, 8, 10-footers and, you know, I kept it in play pretty good. You know, didn't hit it real close.   
 There's some shots out there you just don't feel like you can hit close because of some of the slopes and they just run away, you know, so you can hit a shot that possibly 10, 12 feet away and ends up 40, 50 feet away because of the slope.  
 I had a lot of long putts. I wasn't real sharp with my irons and I left myself kind of longer shots in because I hit a lot of 3-woods but, you know, turned out fine so I think I'll just probably do more of the same tomorrow.  
  
  Q. People picked up on the fact that I don't think they knew you were in the same position, exact same position that you were last year.   
 Is there anything you thought about last year doing a little bit different this year given the circumstances?  
 MARCO DAWSON: No. There's nothing you can do but just go play. You know, you can't worry about that because, you know, last year I was in the same spot and I started off hot, I was 3, 4-under through the first 9 holes and just things went just crazy after that and I ended up missing the cut by one.  
 So, today I started off slow and, you know, just was patient, made a lot of putts, made birdies when I had the chance and I made a lot of par saves, just kept it in play.  
 This is a course you don't have to hit driver on but if you don't hit -- if you hit a 3-wood and don't catch it real solid you're going to be back quite a ways.  
 I like the course because it gives you options like that. Sometimes you kick yourself because you hit a driver when you should have hit 3-wood or vice-versa. It does -- you have to think out there off the tee. Unless you're hitting it really good, there's no thought. You hit the driver or whatever it is. To avoid some of the banks and fall-offs here and there, you got to pick and choose your clubs.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT