FUNAI CLASSIC AT THE WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 20, 2006
Marco Dawson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Marco Dawson, thanks for joining us.  11 under par through the first two rounds here at the Funai Classic.  Make some opening comments on a couple of good days for you.
MARCO DAWSON:  Yes, I've been playing well lately, even though my scores don't show it all the time.  I've been putting well, playing well.  Finally I got things to happen the last couple of days.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We'll go into questions.
Q.  Was there any pressure playing the Palm today after the number Justin put up yesterday?  Did you feel you needed to go fairly low even to have a shot?
MARCO DAWSON:  Not really.  You still try and figure out what the end result after four days is going to be, whether guys have a really, really good round one day, it may be adjusted one or two shots after that.  You know, at the end of four days, I think the total score is still going to be pretty close to the same as it has been in the past.
Q.  We've been sitting here for two days talking about the difference between Mag and Palm.  And with what Justin did yesterday, all of a sudden the Palm is the easiest golf course in the world, if you look at a scoreboard that says minus 12.

Which round was better, your 5 under or your 6 under?  Which was your better round?  Is 5 under on the Mag better than 6 under on the Palm?
MARCO DAWSON:  They were pretty good, both of them.  I started off yesterday with a birdie on the first hole, which was No. 10.  And I got around to 13 and I made a bogey.  I hit a poor drive to the right and managed to make a bogey.  And then I didn't make any birdies after that until I got to the front nine.  And I played the front nine 5 under.  So I played that nine really well.

Today I started off, I hit the first hole in two and three putted and then birdied the next two.  Then I hit a poor drive on 7    or 6, a double bogey there in the water, and then birdied the next two.  And then played the back nine well again, even with a bogey on the back nine.  So I had nine birdies today.
Q.  (No microphone.)
MARCO DAWSON:  Even though I shot one shot better today, I think I played    I guess I played a little bit better today, but I hit some good long iron shots yesterday because that course is longer.  I putted just as well.  I drove the ball about the same.
Q.  Are the playing conditions about the same today versus yesterday?
MARCO DAWSON:  I think so.  This course seems to be a little dryer than the other one, so you're getting a little more roll, so the course is going to be a little shorter.  The par 5s are definitely shorter out here on the Palm.
Q.  And the delay, did that have any affect on you this morning?
MARCO DAWSON:  It doesn't look like it.  (Laughter.) No, I don't think so.
Q.  What did you do during the delay?
MARCO DAWSON:  Just hit a few more balls than normal, hit a few putts, talked to some friends that came out to watch.  The usual stuff; waited.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Marco, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT