THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2018
Marco Dawson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A round of 68 today but you played well today.  
MARCO DAWSON: I did play well today.  I putted well today.  I putted better.  I putted well in the second round and today's round.  Didn't particularly drive the ball well but I managed to keep it out of all the bunkers, and I hit my irons well and putted well.   
 Q.  And nice to finish with birdie on 18?  
MARCO DAWSON: Yes, that was the only ball in '72 holes that came backwards.  The only ball that hit and pitched and came back all week long.  I thought, oh, no, here it comes back down the hill but it stayed on the hill.   
 Q.  How nice is it to be playing at St. Andrews?  
MARCO DAWSON: I've never played in a tournament here, so it was nice to play finally at St. Andrews.  There's just a lot of mystique about it.  It was just nice to come out here and play.   
 Q.  It's been a good week for you and you're lying tied fourth, minus nine.  It's been a really excellent week.  
MARCO DAWSON: Yeah, this is probably the best week I've had so far this year.  I've been playing well as of probably a month, month and a half ago.  I started playing better, started putting better and it's starting to show up in my scores.  This is a good week to do it.   
 Q.  You've not played that much links golf?  
MARCO DAWSON: No, but I fell in love with it the first time I came and played because there's so many options.  In the States it seems like everything is in the air, and it's all about distance.  There's too much emphasis on distance.   
But here, it seems like the yardage on a hole really doesn't mean much.  Because it's so firm and fast and the wind blows every direction that you just have to try and put the ball in the right position, whatever club that takes, and then go from there.   
So you know, it's not about, I have to hit driver otherwise I hit 3-wood into the hole.  You've got to really think and you can play left, you can play right.  There's just so many more options.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT