NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Ed Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  No. 13 Selection, Toronto Raptors

 Q. Feelings being up here? 
 ED DAVIS: Worked out being in Toronto, have to get my passport but happy to be here. 

 Q. North Carolina had a disappointing season and everything. Talk about how you're looking to create a new chapter in your career with Toronto, especially with a team that's in a state of flux right now; what are things you're looking to make things better for you? 
 ED DAVIS: Right, right, I really learned a lot during the whole Carolina thing, my two years there, you know what I'm saying. We did great one year and then not so good my sophomore year, but like I said, I learned a lot but I'm really looking forward to being in Toronto, a young team, they really played up-and-down and I'm happy to be there. 

 Q. Chris Bosh, not controversy, but there's talk about him not being back in Toronto. Are you looking back to stepping up to the plate possibly in the four position? 
 ED DAVIS: I'm just going to work hard and that's what my agent told me with this pick, you have a chance to play right away and possibly start, so I'm just going to play hard and I'm happy to be here with DeMar, he just texted me a couple of times, so I think it's going to be a good fit. 

 Q. I know you have an agent; have you chosen a CPA? Now playing in a foreign country, the tax structure becomes real cumbersome. 
 ED DAVIS: I already have a financial guy, so just more, I guess, letting him know and telling him, you have more work for yourself but I'm not worried about that and now I have to get a passport.

 Q. Are you going to save all your receipts as well? 
 ED DAVIS: Oh, yeah, I would, when that time's come, I'm ready for it. 

 Q. You said you needed a passport; you've never been to Toronto before? 
 ED DAVIS: No, I didn't work out for them. But I talked to them when I was in Chicago and I met with them, and they said that if I slipped they were going to pick me, so it's not a big surprise but I'm happy to be here.

 Q. When you're going to a team that you have not worked out for, how familiar are you with the coaching staff? Did you get to speak with them, as well in the Chicago? 
 ED DAVIS: I spoke with the GM and all of the guys that were there, I think maybe one assistant coach there, and all of the player personnel people. But I mean, it's a good organization, and if I have any questions, I'm going to talk to DeMar tonight and he'll just give me the scoop on it.

 Q. Outside of DeMar, how much do you know about the team? 
 ED DAVIS: I know they have big free agents coming up with Chris Bosh and people are saying he's not going to be there but right now I'm just going to try to work hard and earn the starting job. 

 Q. You mentioned that you talked to Brian Colangelo, talk about your impression of him, because he's a good basketball mind. 
 ED DAVIS: I talked to him like 30 minutes ago when we were sitting down in the Green Room and he just told me that "if you come here, we'll be glad to have you," and he's a good guy and looking forward to meeting him again. 

 Q. Coach Roy Williams, what advice did he give you in your process to the next level? 
 ED DAVIS: Coach Williams was supposed to be here but he was flying from Carolina and he got stopped at Richmond, my hometown and got back in the air and stopped in Baltimore because of the weather, so he didn't make it. A lot of thunderstorms. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT