HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 26, 2019
Jaclyn Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really was a beautiful morning for golf.  You got off to a hot start.  Maybe not how you would want to end, but still in great position going into the weekend.  How do you feel?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, I feel good about my game.  -I gave myself a lot of opportunities out there, and I gave myself a lot of opportunities out there yesterday, as well.  I just didn't convert as many putts as I would've liked.
But, yeah, I think tomorrow and Sunday I'm just going to keep on doing what I've been doing and see how it goes.
Q. We always hear with poa greens the difference from the morning to the afternoon.  What did you see playing a little later yesterday and then early today?
JACLYN LEE: I'm probably one of the few players that's actually like oblivious to things like that.  Yeah, like there are comments, Oh, it's getting a little bumpy, but everyone has to putt on the same greens.
We swapped tee times today, so whoever had it fresh yesterday in the morning like doesn't get it as good today.  It is what it is.
Q. First time here at Wilshire?
JACLYN LEE: Yes, it is.
Q. What do you think about it?
JACLYN LEE: It's a fun golf course.  My caddie came to walk it before I saw it and he said it was fun.  I was like, Okay.  I was a little skeptical.  After playing a few holes out there I was really excited to play.
Q. Any particular spots you really like?
JACLYN LEE: No.  I think it's just a really good track all around.  I like all the holes.  It's a good challenge and the greens are good and it's in good condition.  I can't complain.
Q. Not too often we end on a par-3, too.
JACLYN LEE: Yes.  Yeah, that's kind of a cool finish.  That green is a bit of a beast, but it's cool.  It's cool for sure.  Yeah, when I first walked in and I saw that I asked my caddie, Is that a practice green or is that like an actual green I have to hit on to?  (Laughter.)
But, no, it's cool.  Yeah.
Q. Rookie season.  How is it going so far?
JACLYN LEE: It's going good.  I would say?  It's a little bit hectic in the beginning just getting everything situated and sorted, but everyone out here has been so nice and helpful.  They all want to help the rookies.  No one is like cheering against you, so it's really good.  I really like all the ladies out here.
Q. Any big learning experiences you've had so far?
JACLYN LEE: I think it's more just like when you miss a cut you can't think that it's the end of the world.  Just getting over that hump of just playing golf and not worrying about the cut and the Money List and all that stuff.
I think it's probably a rookie mistake to do that.
Q. So you mentioned coming from college to pros and you weren't expecting it to be too big of a transition.  How has that transition actually been for you?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, it actually has been fine.  I finished my last final a couple days ago, so now I am kind of just hanging out and I don't know what to do with my time, because I used to do golf and school and now it's just golf and relaxation and just enjoying the places we're in.
I'm glad to be done with school for sure.  I'm glad that's kind of off my plate.  But, yeah, I don't I think the transition was too bad.  More just the thought of playing for money I guess versus in college golf just playing for yourself and your team.  That was a bit different.
Q. What was your last class?
JACLYN LEE: Insurance and risk.
Q. What is your major?
JACLYN LEE: Finance.
Q. Makes sense.
JACLYN LEE: Yeah.
Q. And if the greens weren't affecting you between the two rounds, what was the big difference then between yesterday and today?
JACLYN LEE: Well, yesterday we worked a lot on my capture speed with my putting.  I was hitting a bit too firm yesterday and hitting through my break lines.
So I think just brushing up on that.  Yeah, proximity to the hole has been great so far, so.
Q. I know last few events haven't had the results you were looking for.  You went back up to Canada.  Did a little bit of work up there.  What were you working on up there?
JACLYN LEE: Just maintenance.  I saw my coach just before Hawaii.  So, yeah, it's always just same old things with swinging and putting and chipping.  Just making sure I keep on top of everything.
I think a lot just working on my mental game as well.
Q. What is the most important part of your mental game you're working on right now?
JACLYN LEE: I think just believing in myself and not like second guessing myself.  It helps when you have a caddie that you work well with because you can have conversation on the golf course, and then that also puts confidence into the shot you're about to hit.
Q. How does a round like today help with that belief?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, for sure definitely helps.  I honestly didn't even know what I was shooting until like I signed the scorecard.  I saw I was 5-under like before I missed the last putt, but I was like, I think that's wrong.  I don't think I'm actually 5-under.
Yeah, so, no, it's definitely going to help.  Just going to take that confidence into the weekend.
Q. I know you spend a lot of time with Team Canada I believe the last five years.  What's been the most important part and how have they helped you the most?
JACLYN LEE: I think that -- I mean, it's been gradual in terms of taking me when I was like in middle school, high school, and then allowing me to become more independent and be able to travel on my own and do all that stuff.
We have a great team with like our swing coach and mental coach and fitness.  I mean, just everything has really helped me prepare to be out here on tour.
Q. Speaking of the Canadians, a bunch of you on the top of the leaderboard yesterday.  Had to be fun to see.
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, it was.  It's was really good to see.  It was really nice to see couple flags up there at the top.  It's not too often.
It was funny because I'm like, Wow, we have a lot of Canadians out on tour this year, and it's five.  Like really?  That's not a lot, but it feels a lot for us.  It's really good.  Like the whole Canadian family is really close and for sure I've leaned on them as I started my rookie year.  They have been really helpful with just helping me out with everything.
Q. What's been the best piece of advice you've gotten from a Canadian?
JACLYN LEE: I don't know.  I think just reassuring that I belong out here.  Yeah, like I spent some time with Alena during the off-season.  She's like a big sister to me.  Yeah, it's really nice to have her support.
Q. Have you finished class work yet?
JACLYN LEE: I did.  I just finished a couple days ago my last final.  I'm officially done.
Q. Get to go back for graduation?
JACLYN LEE: I do not.  It's during San Francisco, but that's okay.  I took it as if I was still at Ohio State I would've missed it playing regionals anyway.  Just perspective on things.  I would way rather be playing out here on tour than going to my graduation.
Q. And the Buckeyes did pretty well.
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, they did.  They won Big 10.  I may've shed a few tears.  That was awesome.  My roommate for my freshman and sophomore year, she won the individual title and is a co-champion this year, so it's cool just to see that we both have team rings and individual rings.
Q. Was there an element of relief to that, that they're still succeeding even though you came out here?
JACLYN LEE: Not really, because I believed in them.  I knew that like they would be able to step it up.  They all took the mentality of, You know what?  Jaclyn is leaving, but we still got this.  I love them for that.  And I believed in them.  I said, Go win Big 10s without me.  That would make me happy.  I'm glad they went out and did that.
Now all that's left is national championship.  Be awesome to see them do well there, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT