U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2018
Jaclyn Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you just talk about your round today?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, it was pretty solid, steady golf.  I think on this course, if you don't make too many mistakes and you put it in the right places, you can score well, which obviously the girls have done.  But yeah, I felt like I was striking the ball well.  I made some adjustments from yesterday.  I missed a couple short putts out there, but overall I was happy with my day.
Q. You said you found out on Tuesday that you were in the field?
JACLYN LEE: Uh-huh.
Q. How do you prepare for that on short notice?
JACLYN LEE: Well, I kind of came off my last event thinking that I had a good two-week break before I had to play again next, and I knew that there was a possibility to be in this field, but I was like, I don't know, I don't want to get my hopes up.  Yeah, so like when I got the call on Tuesday, I was like, okay, this is good, but now I've got to get back into playing golf because I was kind of trying to take a break after my long summer.  It's a quick turnaround, but I'm glad to be here.
Q. What did you do to prepare in that short a time?
JACLYN LEE: Honestly, I didn't try and go hard on practice.  I just really wanted to give my body the rest that it needed still, so just kind of hitting short little shots and getting back into the groove of things.
Q. This is your second USGA championship?
JACLYN LEE: Yes.
Q. Did the nerves hit you at all when you got to the first tee yesterday?
JACLYN LEE: No, not really.  I think that I've gotten better at that over the years, and having my coach from Ohio State be on the bag, like it just feels like another tournament.
Q. And then going into tomorrow, what's your mindset?
JACLYN LEE: You know what, match play is fun.  I think this is a great match play course.  I don't think that I'm going to change my strategy too much, but just hit good shots and make putts.
Q. Do you have a lot of match play experience?
JACLYN LEE: In the recent years I've been getting more and more match play experience.  I played in the British Amateur this past summer and got to play quite a few rounds there, and I've played in the north and south, and we have a couple of match play events during the school year, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT