CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 28, 2016
Jaclyn Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First LPGA Tour event in the books; I don't think you've stopped smiling since last Sunday, but what's the experience been like?
JACLYN LEE: It's been amazing.  Like when I look back at how great this whole week has been, I'm kind of speechless to be honest, from like the fans and just the golf that I played.  It's been amazing.
For sure I didn't expect this much support.  I knew that I was from Calgary.  I'm not sure how many people really follow me or anything.  But yeah, to see everyone out here, it's been really cool.
Q. Where does this rate in your golf experiences?  Is this instant No. 1?
JACLYN LEE: Oh, yeah, for sure instant No. 1.  We won Big Tens at Ohio State last year, but I think this surpasses it.
Q. I know you probably had expectations coming in.  Did the tournament itself kind of match up to what you expected in terms of everything, level of play, attention?
JACLYN LEE: I think better.  Yeah, this tournament exceeded my expectations for sure, exceeded expectations in how I was going to perform, how the week was going to turn out, and the fans and everything.  Yeah, definitely exceeded in all aspects.
Q. How is your signature coming along?  You probably signed a few more autographs this week.
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, definitely signed a few more than I'm used to.  I think it's going pretty well.
Q. A few years from now, what do you think you're going to remember most about this week?
JACLYN LEE: I think that it's just an experience, this being my first LPGA, I think I'll remember making my first LPGA cut, being the low amateur, and honestly, I've said it so many times, but the fans are seriously amazing.  Really, that's something that I don't think I expected to have so much support.
Q. How would you evaluate your own play over the last four days?
JACLYN LEE: I'd say that I played pretty well.  I was striking the ball well the first two days, struggled a little bit today and yesterday, but overall I'm still really happy with how I've been playing.  I've got a couple things that I do want to work on when I get back to school, but overall I'm happy.  I know that I can play with the pros for sure.
Q. Comparatively speaking did you think you matched up well, ball-striking wise?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, I think so.  I think I strike the ball well enough.  I think that I have a couple things to work on in terms of short game and putting because these ladies have phenomenal short games and wedge play.  I think that I have a little bit of that to improve on, but I think that I'm close for sure.
Q. How was your mindset coming into your first LPGA tournament?  Did you play more aggressive, less aggressive?  How was your strategy?
JACLYN LEE: I wouldn't say that I really decided to play more or less aggressive.  I think always just picking out a good game plan and sticking to it is important.  So yeah, I just kind of played my own game for sure.
Q. I know it's such an individual sport, but you played with I think Stacy yesterday --
JACLYN LEE: I did.
Q. You played with obviously Olympians and Solheim Cuppers and so on.  What do you take from that experience or soak up from something like that?
JACLYN LEE: Kind of see the kind of shots that they play when they're in tough situations.  Not that they were in those all the time.  But also the way that they handled themselves.  And they're normal people.  I mean, it's really just cool to kind of play alongside them and just realize the difference between an LPGA player and maybe a college player is just consistency and a little bit better in the short game area for sure.
Q. What's your text messages and Twitter messages and stuff been like this week?
JACLYN LEE: It's been blowing up, a lot of good lucks and you're playing well, keep it up, kind of thing, so it's really cool to have everyone messaging you and knowing that they support you for sure.
Q. Everyone has kind of heard about your itinerary in terms of playing hooky and stuff.  What happens tomorrow?  Are you on a plane first thing tomorrow morning?
JACLYN LEE: I'm actually on a plane tonight.  I got a red eye out to Toronto, and then from there I'm going to go to Columbus.  I'm going to get there in the morning.  Unfortunately I'll also be missing class tomorrow because I have morning classes, but I'll be just getting settled in tomorrow and doing some catch-up, maybe read a little bit of my textbooks, and then be back in school on Tuesday.
Q. No regrets about missing the first week?
JACLYN LEE: Oh, for sure not, no.  I would miss school any time for a tournament like this.
Q. I guess you're packed and ready to go for the trip?
JACLYN LEE: I wish I could say yes.  Maybe like 75 percent there, so I've still got to do a bit of packing when I get back.  I'm excited to go back to school.  Sad that the summer is kind of over now.  Yeah, I learned a ton this weekend for sure.
Q. Any idea when you'll next hit balls?
JACLYN LEE: Probably Tuesday.
Q. Back at it?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, right back at it.
Q. Would it have been nice in some ways to finish on 18?  I know you mentioned the fans.  There was a decent crew on 9, but at 18 obviously you can see the people and hear the noise.
JACLYN LEE: No, for sure.  I really would have liked to wrap it up on 18.  Not that round that I really would have wanted yesterday to do that, but like having the opportunity to do that yesterday for sure and finish on 18, like that was awesome.  Just like everyone cheering for you because you're Canadian or a local, as well, it's really cool.
Q. Being low am, is that a massive deal in your mind or was that a goal at the start?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, I mean, I thought about it.  But I knew that it was going to be tough.  I mean, there's a lot of good amateurs who played in this event.  So yeah, I thought about it, and then when I made the cut, and I actually didn't realize until the morning of the third round that I was the only remaining amateur.  It was pretty cool to finish like that.
Q. The national coach said he's not surprised.  Your caddie also not surprised at how you played here, and you sound like you knew you could do it, too.  Do you think you've turned a few heads around here this week?
JACLYN LEE: Maybe a little bit.  Yeah, maybe a little bit.  Hopefully I'm going to get some more kids into golf, as well, maybe be an inspiration to them, because that's always nice.  But yeah, I think that maybe I turned some heads, and definitely a lot more people know my name.
Q. Any class in particular you're happy to be missing right now?
JACLYN LEE: No, not really.  Yeah, I do like school, so I like being in class.  I'm not actually like too much a fan of always playing hooky, but when you're playing a tournament like this, I don't regret it at all.
Q. The autographs and stuff, anything about the autographs and the interviews and the attention, has that been kind of different than you expected this week?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, a little different for sure, but I really actually like interacting with the fans and I love seeing all the kids out here kind of cheering me on and cheering everyone else on.  It's really cool to see that.
Q. Can you remember the start that you had?  You had four birdies in your first six holes?
JACLYN LEE: Something like that.
Q. And is that kind of -- I don't know what you're thinking when that's going on.
JACLYN LEE: Honestly, at that point I was just taking it one hole at a time, one shot at a time.  I didn't really know -- like I knew that I was making putts, but it didn't really register, I guess, that moment that I had made a few birdies in a row.
Q. Is there any way that -- it's only four days, but are you a different golfer now in terms of anything you might have picked up or the experience?
JACLYN LEE: Maybe mentally like just with the confidence, just knowing that I can do it.  But I'd say that my game has pretty much stayed the same.  I mean, it's improved throughout the summer, but over the course of this weekend just knowing that I can do it, too, yeah.
Q. When you see what Lydia and Brooke and some of these other stars have to go through in terms of attention and galleries, and you've been near it this week, is that kind of mindblowing in a way, that that could be in your future?
JACLYN LEE: A little bit.  Brooke was ahead of me in a couple groups during the first two rounds, so you could hear the roar.  Every time you heard the roar, it was like, oh, that's Brooke's group.  So that was cool.  Yeah, for sure I think that's really awesome that that could be me in a few years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT