CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 27, 2016
Jaclyn Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel about how you played today?
JACLYN LEE: I feel like I was a little slow today, made some good birdies and then made a big number.  I forget what hole it was on right now.  But overall it was a good round, just missed a couple short putts.
Q. What's it like to hear this kind of a crowd on 18 in your hometown?
JACLYN LEE: Well, even yesterday was really good, but to finish on 18 today and hear the crowd cheer for me, it's awesome.  You have no idea how much support you have until you're really here, and you hear it, too.  It's awesome.
Q. Is your dad in the crowd?
JACLYN LEE: Yes, yes.  Actually my sister also flew up from Vancouver to come watch me play this weekend.
Q. I know you switched up caddies today.  Tell me how that went and just the reasons behind that.
JACLYN LEE: Patrick, he goes to UCLA, and he has a tournament right after this, so originally the plan was that he was just going to caddie for the first two days for me and then I'd let him loose.  So yeah, Dan is filling in, and hopefully Tristan will be on the bag tomorrow.
Q. Mentally how has the transition been, after making the cut yesterday and being into the weekend, what was the difference between yesterday and today?
JACLYN LEE: You know, I think that it's still -- I still have the same goals, just to have fun and learn from everyone around me, so I think mentally it's not too different because you always want to play your best, and I don't think that -- at least for me I'm not playing for money or anything, so for me it's just enjoyment.
Q. You've been pretty fast on the green; what's been the biggest challenge for you today?
JACLYN LEE: Biggest challenge on the greens, I think that just sometimes there's some subtle breaks that you really need to look into.  I think that I technically pushed some putts today, but no, I think that these greens can be tricky, especially when they're fast and you have the little breaks.
Q. What's the goal going into tomorrow?
JACLYN LEE: Again, just have fun.  Again, just play the best that I can, and just really enjoy it because I think that tomorrow will be really fun.  It's going to be my last day back before I head back to school, so really going to enjoy it.
Q. You got some time off from school, right?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, school started on the 23rd, so I am a little behind in my schoolwork right now, but yeah, I'll be starting back on Tuesday, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT