CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2016
Jaclyn Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, 5-under, tied for 12th.  How you feeling?
JACLYN LEE: I'm feeling pretty good.  I didn't know I was tied for 12th until you just told me.  I haven't had a chance to look at the leaderboard yet.  But, yeah, these past two days have been really fun, incredible.  Just a great experience.  It's been a bonus on top of that to play well.
Q. Have you exceeded expectations?  Did you think you'd be around for the weekend?
JACLYN LEE: I mean, I hoped to be around for the weekend.  That was definitely a goal coming into this tournament, and to shoot 5-under for the past two rounds, that's a bit of a surprise for me.  Like I'm happy with it, for sure.  I know that I'm capable of doing that.  But, yeah, I'm really happy with the way I've been playing.
Q. How is this experience going to help you?  (Inaudible)?
JACLYN LEE: I mean, for sure yesterday I was nervous for the first couple of holes.  It took me a few holes just to get settled in.  But now I kind of just realized it is just another golf tournament just with another field.  I think that this experience is definitely going to help me in the future playing college tournaments as well and just taking everything I've learned this week.
Q. This is your first tournament since The Open and shows you can play out here?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, for sure.  It's definitely encouraging to kind of see where I stand playing with professionals.  I mean, I'd be really excited if I could turn pro after I'm done with university.
Q. How big is the friends and family contingent out there this week?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, I mean, actually it was pretty big.  More than I expected.  I think I especially yesterday the only people following were family and friends.  And like my caddie's family came up to watch as well.  So it was really nice to have the support out there.  Kind of comforting but a bit nerve-racking at the same time because you want to play well for them.  But, yeah, it's been good.
Q. Did you see some other members from the Glencoe out there watching you?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, I got some other members, other juniors who have come up to watch me as well.  So, yeah, definitely a huge contingency of family and friends coming out this week for sure.
Q. (Inaudible)?
JACLYN LEE: Patrick's played a couple of pro events himself, so he's really helpful with telling me to breathe.  I think we made some really good decisions out there.  It helps that he's a great player himself.  So when looking at numbers and where I want to hit my shots, he's really helpful for sure.
Q. Do you draw on inspiration (Inaudible)?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, yeah.  For sure.  Yeah, it was awesome to see Jared dominate like that over in Ontario.  Yeah, him playing well inspires me to try to play well this tournament like he did over there.  So, yeah, it's really cool.  He was out at Glencoe as well this year, so I got to talk to him a little bit.  Yeah, he's a really nice guy.
Q. With the firmness of the greens on the Forest course, is it similar to the greens out here?
JACLYN LEE: Honestly, I haven't had a chance to go play Forest this year.  But Glencoe usually plays pretty firm and the greens are always in good condition, so it's pretty similar I would say.
Q. What are you going to have to do to keep it rolling and stay in contention on the weekend?
JACLYN LEE: I think it's just playing my own game and keeping calm and just keep on doing what I'm doing now.  Don't overthink everything too much.  Just make good decisions and do the best that I can.
Q. Can you describe the difference between for the past week telling yourself I can compete out there and now playing over the past two days here?
JACLYN LEE: Yeah, it's one thing to say I hope I can play on the LPGA in the future or I think I can do it.  But to go out there and do it and prove it to yourself is another thing, which will, for sure, add to the confidence throughout the entire year and the rest of my career.
Q. Do the goals change now (Inaudible)?
JACLYN LEE: Initially, yes, the goal was to make the cut.  The goal right now is still just to play the best that I can.  Even if I played well and didn't make the cut, I'd still be happy.  So the goal is the same to be happy and have fun for sure.
Q. Do you have (Inaudible)?
JACLYN LEE: Not really.  I mean, I have these moments where I'm just happy to be here, just enjoying the moment, and just, yeah, I enjoyed it, for sure.
Q. Do you have a sense of what it means to friends and family and just what it means to the people who supported you for so long?
JACLYN LEE: I think, yeah.  I think it's cool for them to finally see me play, especially in such a big event like this and not just a junior tournament or anything.  So I think it's been exciting for them and for me.  Both for them showing me support and also me showing them what I can do.
Q. (Inaudible) do you think your profs can see your name and know what you've been up to?
JACLYN LEE: I'm not sure if my profs are following along.  But I'm still getting emails from them, like, oh, we're starting module two, and I haven't even looked at module one yet, so I've got some catching up to do, for sure (laughing).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT