NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 25, 2006
Brian France
Mike Helton
Gary Nelson
Tish Sheets
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  This will be for Brian or Gary or both.  The phase-in of the Car of Tomorrow going looks like all the way to 2009, this is something of a fairly recent concession to the concerns of the car owners?  It seems like mid-season last year y'all were kind of talking about a go-for-it-all by 2007.  Is this the latest in accommodating the car owners that will come over such a period of time? 


 Q.  This question is for Gary Nelson.  Gary, how many cars do typical teams build now, and how many will they use once the cars of tomorrow are fully phased in? 



 Q.  This question is for Gary.  Is the development of the Car of Tomorrow complete, or is there still work being done on it? 





 Q.  This is for Brian France.  Can you kind of put in perspective what this introduction to Toyota means in the history books of NASCAR, how huge a thing it is for you to be introducing this, and how soon we'll see Honda following suit or other auto makers? 



 Q.  This is for Gary and Robin.  I notice that the 1.5 mile tracks are the last to be phased in.  Are those more of a challenge to maybe get the Car of Tomorrow to a competitive state, or is that just an easier way to phase everything in? 


 Q.  This is for Brian France.  Toyota is coming to this other racing series and spent a lot of money.  I would imagine they would do that here, as well.  Do you worry given the financial state of Ford and GM and Daimler-Chrysler that that's going to be an issue for them? 

 Q.  Gary, we wanted to know if that is perhaps one of the pseudo cars of tomorrow.  I don't see the splitter on the front of the Camry.  And for Tish, can you tell me are people stepping up more to contribute to the diversity program? 


 Q.  Question for Gary and Robin.  In terms of the Car of Tomorrow, three kind of safety questions.  One, has there been any consideration given to lowering the weight of 3,400 pounds, that there's less mass upon impact, and also moving the engine back?  And has there been any consideration given to the change of leaded to unleaded fuels as far as the size of the fuel tank? 



 Q.  Mike, do you want to expound on that, on where we've been with unleaded fuel? 







 Q.  Brian, two questions.  One is the whole issue of the backlash that there may be from the American race fans with the end of the era of NASCAR being an American car series.  Obviously you'll have to deal with that.  The second one is with the Car of Tomorrow, fuel sales and maybe getting a little bit less gas mileage, that means more pit stops and potentially longer races.  Will NASCAR at least think about or look into the idea of shortening long races, 500-mile races, to sort of fit the television window?  Is that a consideration that's been addressed? 



 Q.  My question is for I guess Brian France and probably Mike, as well.  The decision by Toyota not to centralize its operations and build engines and bodies for all its Cup teams as they do in the trucks and as they've done as an engine supplier, given there was some grumbling from our Cup owners if that were to happen and Toyota did have an unfair advantage by centralizing its operations, did NASCAR have any influence on that decision by Toyota and are you pleased that they're going in that direction? 




 Q.  Brian, can you discuss the impact that George Pyne's departure will have on the hierarchy of the executive lineup at NASCAR, as in will someone be elevated, will others assume that role or will someone be hired from outside? 




 Q.  The schedules for the next few years, we haven't had any big upheavals, tracks closing, anything like that.  As the schedules move forward, how is the transition of the Car of Tomorrow, is that going to affect any kind of scheduling that you're going to be doing?  Should we expect any big surprises in '07, for instance, in terms of scheduling?  And talk about the rumors that we're hearing about the Busch Series going into Canada. 


 Q.  This is for Gary and perhaps for Brian.  The appearance on the outside involving the Car of Tomorrow is that you guys are going to be dragging the car owners kicking and screaming into accepting this.  Part of that comes from the fact that there didn't seem to be a lot of participation when y'all offered them the opportunity at Daytona during testing.  The first question is how do you overcome that, and how important or how critical is it that you get the participation from the teams as far as the testing and development of the car as you move forward? 










 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT