WNBA FINALS: SHOCK v SILVER STARS
October 3, 2008
Kara Braxton
Katie Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. This question is for Katie Smith. Just what keeps your drive going as you get towards the latter part of your career to stay in such good shape?  
 KATIE SMITH: I want to live for a long time. I mean, honestly it's just quality of life, if you want to talk about being in good shape.   
 I want to be able to, you know, have fun, be active for the rest of my life, if that is what you talking about.   
 Here as a basketball player, I want to win. Bottom line, this is why I play the game, because you want to find a way to win whether it's pickup, whether it's here. They'll tell you, I am a little bit of a competitor all the time.  
  
  Q. Kara, can you talk about last year you guys felt that the series got away from you, the Finals. How much did that kind of eat away at you, and how much has that been sort of a motivating force this year in the Finals?  
 KARA BRAXTON: It's been a big motivator for me, as well as the other girls on the team who have been here. Some of the other girls are new, so we just try to give them any type of experience that we have.   
 But losing to Phoenix last year hurt us big time. We were right there and we lost focus. So coming into the playoffs this year and the Finals in the season at hand, that was our main goal, to get back in this position and we made it.  
  
  Q. Katie, can you talk about your play tonight? Especially when San Antonio was breaking it even with you all, how you stepped up and hit big shot after big shot?  
 KATIE SMITH: You know, you try to stay aggressive throughout the ball game. And I feel good obviously with playing and shooting the ball.   
 But a lot of offenses obviously the first opposite option if they don't take it you feel like you are going to attack if not you feel confident with Taj and Kara. But just trying to stay in that attack mode and not take it easy on it. Especially when Becky's guarding me and whatnot, she wants to stay in the ball game. You understand that she might not get up and get in. Like VJ does and Buescher.   
 So it's just being aggressive, but also knowing if they take me away, I know I have a lot of confidence with Taj banging the big shot. Kara hit a big bucket. Tweet made some great passes.   
 So I have a lot of confidence. I think we all do, that everybody on the floor will make good decisions.  
  
  Q. Now you guys have a 2-0 lead. What's the approach coming back home?  
 KATIE SMITH: It's not over. We haven't done anything.   
 So we're excited about going home. We're excited about getting on the floor. If we could play tomorrow, I'd be happy. We're excited about an opportunity that we have. We have an opportunity but we have not done anything yet.  
  
  Q. When you get off to such a big lead, you kind of know as basketball players, a lot of times a team will make a comeback on you, then the momentum goes back to them. But how did you guys both deal with that when they did come back and tie the game?  
 KARA BRAXTON: We came into the time-out and we just had to really set in and focus. Tell everybody just to relax and breathe, you know.   
 They're great team and they're going make their shots. We're on their home floor. But we just had to buck down and take care of our defense, do the things that we need to do and execute.  
 KATIE SMITH: It was glad we had a cushion. I thought we coming out of the game like that put the crowd on -- obviously took them out of it for a second. You get a little worried.  
 But I remember a time I was smiling and was like, here we go again. It's like in a sense we've been in this position quite a bit here this year. And I think we have a lot of confidence. Like, man, it's a 40-minute game. And that's another thing Bill always harps on is whatever happens in the first five to the 35th minute, it doesn't matter. It is a 40-minute ball game. You have to keep grinding and keep playing. They'll have their runs. Just be patient; we'll get ours. Get a bucket to fall and we'll get ourselves going again.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT