UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2012
Johnathan Gray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Johnathan Gray, starting runningback.     
   
 Q.   How does that sound?     
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   It's great.   My team is counting on me.   I'm ready to execute, be what they want me to be, come through.     
   
 Q.   How cool is this for you, your family, your dad?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   It's very cool.   My mom and dad went to Tech.   It's just fun.   I'm going to Texas, they went to Tech.   It's kind of a rivalry in the house.     
They talk smack.   I just be quiet and wait till the results after the game.     
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   We'll see.   I have to talk to them tonight, try to get them to wear burnt orange.     
   
 Q.   Too late in the year to be the starter?   Happening too fast?     
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   You know, something I knew coming in I had to be patient.   As a runningback, in the runningback room, if we're the starters, we have to know we're accountable.   Doesn't matter if I'm a starter, Joseph, Mal, Jeremy is a starter, we have to execute the role of it.   
   
 Q.   What do you know factually about what your dad did at Texas Tech?     
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   I know that he was a leading rusher there.   He did some great things there.   He told me, Hey, you're not me, you can't be me, you have to be your own man, do what you want to do, be the best at what you want to do.     
I'm taking that into accountability, just learning from him, trying to be better than him.   That's what he wants me to be.   I'm going to be better than him and continue on the road.     
   
 Q.   Have you tried to emulate him at all style-wise?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   No, we're two different backs.   My dad was more of a power back.   Little bit bigger than I was in college.   That's why he tells me, You can't be me.   I'm more of a speedy, quick guy.   He was more of a downhill, power back.     
   
 Q.   What do you think it is that the coaches see that you've been doing to make this move?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   Getting better every week.   My teammates have helped me out.   Offensive line has given me yardage that we need to win games.   I guess the coaches see that we can move the ball.   Being a starter this week, it's fun.   Coach knows that you're doing something and get better.     
   
 Q.   What was your reaction when you found out you were named the starter?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   I just found out I was the starter.   Reaction was great.   Like I said, my team is counting on me to execute the plays.   That's what I plan on doing.   
   
 Q.   Any added pressure having that title with your name now?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   No pressure.   You play the game of football, you love the game of football, this is what you do.   You have to be ready when coach calls on you.   That's how we feel in the runningback's room.     
   
 Q.   Does it get easier for you as you're getting more consistent carries?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   Doesn't get easier.   Every week is a competitive game, a hard game.     
Going up to Tech, it's going to be a hard-fought battle, hard game.   We're going in with the intention of playing hard, to the best of our ability.     
   
 Q.   What is the rivalry like?     
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   I don't really know too much about it.   It's my first time being in one.   I know Texas Tech is real hard every year.   I'm expecting that, going in with the intentions of playing to the best of my ability, helping my teammates out.   
   
 Q.   Because of your parents, did you grow up as a Tech fan, disliking Texas?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   I didn't grow up disliking Texas.   My parents went to Tech.   My mom sent me a picture of stuff they used to dress me in.   It was just fun.   I went to some Tech games.   I'm here at Texas now.   I'm playing for Texas.     
   
 Q.   Halloween is Wednesday.   Do you participate in Halloween?   Have a favorite costume?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   My favorite costume was The Hulk.   Destructive, tearing up stuff.   I was destructive, tearing up stuff when I was a kid.   He was my guy.     
   
 Q.   Do you have a nickname?   Does it make you uncomfortable that you're the boss back there?   
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   I don't know of any nicknames I have.   Most of the teammates call me Jay or Jay Gray or Gray or Johnathan.   Those are pretty much my nicknames.   Or, Hey, freshman (laughter).     
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Johnathan.     
JOHNATHAN GRAY:   Thank you.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT