NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Kollin Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Kollin.  Talk about heading to the national championship match tomorrow night?
KOLLIN MOORE: Yeah, I think I wrestled well.  I stuck to the game plan.  I had to get on to his legs early, that was the plan.  I stuck to that.  I'm comfortable on the bottom, but I wanted to limit the amount of chances he had to turn me on top.  So I knew I could win the hand fight and get to his legs and just wanted to make wrestling happen, get into positions with him and something was going to happen.  So I came out on top.
Q. Kollin, you saw Myles lose the match before you.  How much did that sort of provide maybe a little extra feel for you going out there sort of as a vengeance for your fallen teammate?
KOLLIN MOORE: That was a really unique experience.  I'm used to Myles going out there and getting nasty on dudes before I go out.  So I really feel for him.  I've been there.  I tried to not let myself get down, but I really didn't want that to be a motivation for my match, either.  Try to just like, block it from my mind for the longest amount of time possible, just go out there and wrestle for me because I know that's what Myles would want me to do.
Q. Kollin, Bo was just in here talking about a lot of times when he gets these pins he sees them happening before something happens and when there is an opening he makes the most of people's mistakes.  How do you go against him knowing that you cannot make mistakes?
KOLLIN MOORE: Yeah, he's a unique wrestler and exposing people for their mistakes and I think my mistake at Big Ten was I was too focused on not making mistakes.  I didn't fight him in a lot of positions and that bothered me more than getting pinned in a minute and a half the first time.  So, yeah, I'm trying not to think about it just yet, trying to soak all this in.  But that match has been in my mind since Big Tens and I'm going to try to go out there and wrestle really hard, you know, and hopefully not make any big mistakes.  But if I do, fight like heck to get out of 'em.
Q. Kollin, you get an opportunity to train with a guy that at least the last few years is the best wrestler in the world, right?  And has been on huge stages.  What kind of a factor will that be in your mindset as you go against somebody who is very successful and this is a big stage.  But I mean, you're being trained with and living your life around someone who is one of the best we've every had.
KOLLIN MOORE: Yeah, I think it's just a little bit of an advantage for me.  I'm thrust into that environment every day trying to wrestle Kyle.  If you're not feeling great or you don't bring it all to that practice you're going to get the crap kicked out of you.  I'm used to that environment, which I think helps.  It's hard to replicate Bo Nickal style, so that's a different aspect.  But as far as training goes and being in tough situations and trying to push through that, I've had plenty of experience with Kyle, Myles, Bo, all my teammates.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Kollin.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT