EVERT CUP
March 8, 1999
Henrieta Nagyova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was this a pretty important win for you, a pretty big win? 
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  Yeah, it was for sure.  It was the first win what I won against Top-10 players.  I'm very happy that it was here in Indian Wells because I like it here. 
 

Q.  It looked like you hit a lot of topspin, kept her off balance, hit some slice.  What was your plan against her today?
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  I just played what I thinking, some slice, not just hitting balls so hard, just play a little bit clever.  
 

Q.  Did you feel like you were in a zone, kind of playing some of your best tennis today, or was this just an average day for you?
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  Yeah, for sure I played like I don't know the best match of my career, but for sure some best play.  I play quite good also the two matches before.  I just play here well. 
 

Q.  Are you gaining more confidence with each match?
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  Yes, for sure.  
 

Q.  Monica said that she didn't feel her mind was in this match; that she just wasn't focusing properly.  Did you have that sense, too, that Monica was not there mentally today?
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  It can be, but I don't know what happened, what was happen.  I just play well.  I think that's why was the reason. 
 

Q.  You think then that your play had a lot more to do with you winning than Monica being distracted, so to speak?
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  Yeah, I think so.  But I was mentally fit. 
 

Q.  How did you make yourself mentally fit?
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  I just concentrate on every ball.  That's it.  
 

Q.  Do you think this victory could be a real breakthrough for you that would point you to other big victories, that you can go on from here and vastly improve your position in women's tennis?
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  I hope it can be, it will be, because five tournaments, I didn't make like some big jump for biggest tournament.  But now I think it's getting better and will be. 
 

Q.  Were you surprised you had a 5-Love lead in the first set and you were able to break her so fast?
 
HENRIETA NAGYOVA:  Yeah.  5-Love, she just  -- she serve on 5-1.  She just won the first game.  I was just a little bit nervous in the finish of that set, but I finish it quite good, 6-2.  Then I just concentrate on second set.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT