NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 1999
German Silva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. There was many a time during the course of the race that the media was thinking you
look so good, so frisky. Were you ever tempted to go the whole way today?

GERMAN SILVA: I feel good during the race and I tried to do my job, my job was running
halfway, set a pace together with the other pacemakers, and I tried to do my job. And by
the way, I was feeling very good. I don't know, I mean, but as I told you before I hope
not to finish because thinking very well and being clever I didn't have my training, my
complete training who will support me. I was feeling very good in the physical and
psychological way because I was very feeling very good, but I listened to the side that I
didn't have to finish. But I wanted to watch the race anyway, so -- (laughter).

Q. Who was your money on?

GERMAN SILVA: I saw a couple of people very strong. I saw Kagwe strong. I saw just
getting into the Central Park; Castro very, very strong, he was pushing and I thought if
Castro gets together with Chebet in the last mile he have chance to win, but the good news
for Chebet is that he push the pace and broke away a little bit and he is very consistent
and he run a lot on his tempo. He don't give up on tempo. He takes a good pace. He don't
-- he keep on the pace. He can run 50 kilometers that pace, no problem, he is very strong.
It was very exciting to watch the race. It was a very good place to watch the race. I
stayed right in front the whole race, but it was nice.

Q. Obviously you feel much happier as you leave the day here on the course. I assume
that you are going to come back next year and try and win again?

GERMAN SILVA: Today I enjoyed the race in all aspects. I enjoyed running. I enjoy
feeling myself like I help because all of them, they are my friends, sometimes I took
water for one and for others, but I think the job from a pacemaker, especially in these
conditions, I thought might not be set a fast a pace because the conditions were going on
in sometimes different way. I think the first 10k we lost a little bit of time, we lost
some time, so I thought the other pacemakers just to forget about the time we lost and try
to keep a good group and that is what we did and sometimes trying to help the group.

Q. At what point did you drop out off the race? What mile mark was it, do you remember?

GERMAN SILVA: I think it was close to the 19 -- between 18 and 19. One hour 30 exactly.

Q. Did you have it in your mind to jump onto the truck then?

GERMAN SILVA: Well, I wanted to watch the race and the only way I thought by going I
have to run to the hotel and I am lazy to run slow, like after running, I thought well, in
the meantime, I practice my steeplechase.

Q. Did anyone of the contenders not -- have any conversation with you during the course
of the race asking any questions, any requests?

GERMAN SILVA: Well, we had sometimes a couple of communication with different athletes
like I think with Chebet a couple of times, like you know, like take it easy, take it easy
about the course, even sometimes people get excited and a couple of times some people get
into the race and it is very dangerous for the others, and my position in running a
marathon, I would like somebody to just jump on the pack because if somebody fall down,
then everybody will fall. So I try to take away that person from the group to keep it safe
and sometimes we had some conversation, I think I enjoy, we had communication because
athletes you are running there and you have the feeling yourself so sometimes like I say
tell some athletes give some extra motivation, you look good, you are doing well, so keep
on going but not just to one, but to the other and everybody, you know, like sometimes I
remember I had conversation with the Moroccan -- he told me where -- 'til where are you
going, don't worry, 'til 25 and then when I -- when I sprint to catch the truck, then I
told him you stay, I am out. (laughter).

Q. We didn't see a lot of the race coming down Fifth Avenue and into Central Park, the
television went away. There were 8 coming down Fifth Avenue and when it came back there
were 3. Can you tell me how it got from 8 to 3? When I last saw Leone and Castro were
pushing --

GERMAN SILVA: Yeah, at that point I think Castro started -- already before Castro start
to push a little bit, but I think the reason the group get to three because I think it was
a consequence of the miles going on, you know, some people start not really -- there was
not really a big move from somebody specifically, but I think people start to drop back a
little bit. It is very us very nice to watch a race like this, a big group, a nice group.
After when they get into the Central Park, the group start to get some definition and I
enjoyed it a lot. Thank you.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT