FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2003
Stewart Ginn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Inaudible?
STEWART GINN:  It's different from our sport where you've got a club in your hand, but he's got four tires and a wheel, and to be able to do that was awesome.  I learned a lot, actually and it was so nice to watch him finesse the car around the racetrack, and it was just a beautiful experience. 

Q.  What did you think of the car and the layout?
STEWART GINN:   The car is awesome.  I booked the car for taking it back on MAS flight on Sunday night, MH 0094, the car is already wrapped up.  I don't like the color, as long as I can do a black one, it will be right up my alley.

Q.  What did you learn from Stewart this morning? 
NED JARRETT:  I learned a lot.  First of all he's such a great sportsman and I appreciated the opportunity of meeting him and spending the time with him out on the track as well as out on the driving range, and certainly he gave me a good tip on the driving range that I feel will be beneficial in my game, and primarily in posture.  He didn't have enough time to work with me and he didn't have the right product to work with that really makes me good, but I felt all along that he was a lot more trainable than I. 
It was a great experience for me to spend this time with him, and to see the similarities, really, in our professions, the techniques that are involved.  As we mentioned earlier, the slowing down, getting into the turns just right when you're on the track, and not driving in and jamming the brakes on and getting the car all upset.  So you can accelerate through the turns and same things applies as far as swinging the golf club, take it back nice and easy, and that's one thing he emphasized on the driving range, take it back nice and easy so that you can accelerate through the ball. 

Q.  You looked comfortable out there, have you had any experience with sports cars? 
STEWART GINN:   I've had sports cars from a young age.  I've been very lucky, I worked some friends back there with race cars.  It's a passion I have.  I'm no expert and I don't profess to be.  It's something that I guess I'm an added fan.  I love watching these boys do what they do and I've always enjoyed cars and still will. 

Q.  Inaudible?
STEWART GINN:   I had a 933 turbo Porsche and I probably took that right up to the maximum, but I was probably young and gung ho then, I wouldn't do it now.

Q.  What was the max?
STEWART GINN:   Red lined at  -- I think I was doing about 195.  But I think, you know, I was young and gung ho then.  I think listening to Ned after today and watching the way he does his business, so professional, and it was just a great at this point.

Q.  Was that on a  track?
STEWART GINN:   I won't talk about where it was.  I won't say where it was, no.  Flat.

Q.  Is that 195 kilometers or miles per hour?
STEWART GINN:   That's miles per hour. 

Q.  Stewart, in one way, on the golf course your driving is not about all-out speed, it's about finesse, would you say that accurately? 
STEWART GINN:   Yeah, I think talking with Ned out there on the track and watching him, what he goes through, I asked him a couple of questions.  I said:  Where's your pressure, where do you feel pressure out here in this race car?  And as he explained I've got pressure all around me, from drivers to track to tires to engine and all the rest of it.  It was interesting to hear his comments on that, and it's very similar when we play golf, professional golf.  I've got the golf course to beat and I've also got my mind and the other competitors.  So we are very similar to the jobs we do when we race and compete with other competitors.  He's got four holes.  I've got 14 clubs. 

Q.  What sort of cars do you have at home? 
STEWART GINN:   Well, I did have a couple of beauties.  I think at the press conference a couple of weeks back  -- Aston Martin went.  I had a Swift four -- GTB4 (ph), an Advantage GT Aston Martin.  I've got a Bentley Corniche, the a-type Jag, I've had them all from Austin Healey as you will the way up through.  It's a pass, and I think I mentioned  -- most of those went with my baggage the first time and this time I'm left with just a very comfortable car at the moment. 

Q.  In other words, in your first life  --
STEWART GINN:   Yeah, in certain areas, yes. 

Q.  You used to play that Donald Ross course? 
NED JARRETT:   Catawba in Newton, North Carolina.

Q.  What's your low score there? 
NED JARRETT:   My low round on that course is a 76 many years ago.  My low round in recent years has been last year I had a 78 one day.  Most of the time, I'm 82 to 88. 

Q.  Have you had much instruction? 
NED JARRETT:   The professional will come out on the driving range on occasions and give me some tips.  I have not really utilized the services that have been available to me as much as they should have.  I'm one of these guys that can go out and play and not do that much practicing, and I know that I should do more practice if I want to really get good at it. 

Q.  Working with Stewart today you found, what, that you had to work on? 
NED JARRETT:   I found my posture, for sure, that I need to work on.  That's something that just doesn't come in two or three swings.  It will take me time to really work on, but I will concentrate on that in the future.  Also, emphasizing that taking back slowly and accelerating through  -- when I do that, but sometimes, you know we get out on the golf course and get a little bit carried away and hit a bad shot.

Q.  How often do I get to play?
NED JARRETT:   I average about three times a week now that I'm supposedly retired, not totally but I still do. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
NED JARRETT:   Oh, Dale, I'm not in his class.  He and my oldest son, Glenn, are about alike.  I think Dale claims about a 6 handicap, but I played with him a few months ago on this course and he played from the blue championship tees and he shot a 71.  So he's capable of sub-par golf any time that he goes out, but he doesn't get to play enough to really hone his game.  There's people that have mentioned to him, you know he's 46 now and he loves the game of golf as much as he does driving race cars and they have mentioned, were you thinking about the Senior Tour when you decide to quit driving race cars, and he's never said no, that I've heard and so I don't know if that's in the back of his mind or not.  But he works on his game more than I do.  He will come out and practice.  For example, he came home Saturday night from Daytona and he probably didn't get home, and the race ended, what, 10:00 or whatever and probably got home one or 2:00 and 8:00 on Sunday morning he was out on the practice range. 

Q.  Being involved with Ford for racing for many years, what has Ford done for racing and what has racing done for Ford? 
NED JARRETT:   Well, Ford has done a tremendous amount for auto racing, no question about that, in helping to develop safer race cars, for one thing, and then of course the resources that they bring to the sport.  Not just dollars, but the technical engineering resources that they bring to the sport has been a page or help, and even back in my days of racing I was very fortunate.  My first year of full competition on the circuit was 1960.  I only ran about six and a half years on what is now the NASCAR Winston Cup circuit.  I was on my own that year and I spent a total of $31,000 to run about 50 races.  I took in about 29,500.  Now, you know you're looking at $10 to $20  million to field a car for the full season. 
Then Ford came, they were out of racing at that time but they came back into racing and in the fall of 1960, made an announcement at Arlington, South Carolina that they would have four teams that we should sponsor in 1963 and I was fortunate to be one of the drivers they chose.  Certainly, was a godsend for me and my career to be able to connect up with them and be on their team and stay with them until I retired in 1960, so certainly, saw a lot of what they were doing then.  There was not as much technology in the sport then as there is now.  NASCAR didn't allow it.  Those were pretty stock cars back then. 
But Ford would take it to lead us to take it to the  -- as far as NASCAR would allow us to go, and I think from the standpoint of what racing has done for Ford, I feel that it has helped them, the old saying of, "win on Sunday and sell on Monday," and I think that's been very true over the years and I think it still is true.  I think that's one way that it's helped them, but I think probably another way that has helped them much more is the engineering data that they have received by their participation in racing that's helped to make better and safer cars for highway driving customers. 

Q.  For people who were not out test driving, what were your first comes when you came out of the car? 
STEWART GINN:   Awesome.  That was my first comment.  But I probably made a bad comment there, just like, you know, having sex with your pants on I think or whatever, I apologize about that.  But it's something that you can't really relate to what it's like out there with the speed and accelerate and the thrill that you get on a track.  And with this guy here, when they give it to the car, it's something that it's an experience that you have to experience.  It's just a wonderful feeling, and I hope I get the pleasure of doing it again.
NED JARRETT:   The third one was a lot of fun.  You notice he drove faster than I did.  But it would be interesting, honestly, to see how the lap times would have compared  -- I doubt if they had a stop watch.  It would have been interesting, there might not have been that much difference, even though it was obvious to the eye that he was driving faster into the turns than I was that sometimes that's not the fastest way around the racetrack. 
STEWART GINN:   -- which I learned today and it was a great experience that he gave me, a great experience. 

Q.  You said that you had some experience  --
STEWART GINN:   All-sport racing. 

Q.  In Australia  --
STEWART GINN:   For a little bit, but I tend towards Ferrari.  I don't know why, but I like the red Ferrari.  It depends.  I guess motor bike racing, like Doon (ph) was the world champion in motor bike racing, same sort of thing.  You tend to follow the guys that race for Australia, even Malaysia.  We had one out there from Malaysia racing for a little bit, Formula I.  And I guess you follow your drivers, just like over here, or your teams.
Thank you very much for the great thrill.  Enjoyed it. 
NED JARRETT:   Thank you very much. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
MODERATOR:   Last year I played with Carlos Franco in a Pro-Am in Greensboro, North Carolina.  It was a blast to play with him.  I've honestly played more of the Pro-Ams in the LPGA than the PGA, and this is my first of the seniors.  We have the Champions Tour, not Seniors anymore, coming to one of the courses that I belong to in North Carolina in September.  We look forward to that.   In fact, I haven't played in LPGA in recent years.  Probably last time I played, I played with Nancy Lopez.  And played with Pat Bradley, one time a number of years ago and Danielle Atherton (ph). 

Q.  Of all of the golfers you've played with, putting skills  -- can you  it relate to other sports like driving or what have you? 
NED JARRETT:   Yes, I have noticed that they definitely have a lot of athletic skills.  Even though there was a time when golfers and race car drivers were not athletes, I think that has changed over the years.  And women people are looking at it differently, and rightly so.  There are definite  -- the athletic skills of a golfer, I'm not sure if I know how to define it really the way that it should be, but part of being an athlete is preparation, and getting yourself in the right frame of mind, whatever sport your playing in, and I would say in golf that that is one of the most  -- or a couple of most important things that they need to do.  And then to exert themselves, even though they don't look like they are, and that's what makes them better than the rest of us, they don't look like they are exerting themselves physically that much but they are.  It takes a lot of physical stamina and physical strength to do what they do.  And so in my opinion it helps to make them quite an athlete. 

Q.  Racing the young guns certainly are in better shape than you in 1960 were, and they train differently and better, do they not? 
NED JARRETT:   Yes, they do.  Even though I was probably one of the first drivers that did work out, it is was not publicized back then or nobody knew it, that I was working out and driving around town without the air conditioner with the window rolled up in 100 degrees and sweat to prepare myself in that way, but I also would work out physically to try to strengthen my muscles and when I first quit driving race cars and started playing golf, I didn't play golf until I had retired from driving.  But I could hit the ball a long way and just stand up  -- stand still and not use much of my body.  I didn't know how to use the rest of my body, but I had so much strength in my arms and shoulders as a result of driving the race cars  -- and I've tried to get that back, but I haven't been able to get that kind of strength back again, as well as the distance. 
But it's interesting how getting yourself in condition and keeping yourself in condition can help you in any sport.  There's one thing I think that's helped to stay DJ stay on and competitive as long as he has been.  Rick LaPet (ph) was never a guy that I knew of, at least, that worked out, but when he started his career, he started about six months before I did and we were running 50 to 60 races a year.  And also helping to work on the race cars, so we were doing a lot of physical things to stay in physical condition, maybe not the right things to tone the right muscles and all of those kind of things, but he as a result of his total involvement for so many years, I guess maybe he felt that he didn't need to work out.  But I do feel that it's important today, more so than ever, to work out.  Again, I think that's what has helped to extend DJ's career because he's a fanatic about it.  It's been written, he even wrote a book on it, about his physical workout and those kind of things.  But DJ is almost as much of a fanatic as Mark is. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT