FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2002
Stewart Ginn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DAVE SENKO:  Questions.
Q.  Were you ever tempted to give it up?  Obviously, you went through a lot to keep your career going.
STEWART GINN:  Yeah.  Well, you know, the point is that, no, you know, I'm not a (inaudible) guy or whatever, I don't profess to be.  I'm just happy to play the game and I enjoy what I can do.  I know I can play; I know I can win.  I'm just so happy to be able to win. 
I know there's a lot of great players out there, you just got to go do the best you can. 

Q.  Talk about the time you were growing up, playing on the golf course, you used to sneak in, did you ever think you would get to this level?
STEWART GINN:  Well, I was very fortunate in my early days to be  -- my home course was Royal Melbourne in Australia.  My back fence was the 12th hole of the east course.  I was introduced to the game at probably seven or eight years of age watching the Canada Cup, watching Sam Snead play with Peter Thompson.  Not really vividly, but that was the biggest turning point that turned me onto golf, watch those guys go play golf the way they played.

Q.  Do you think now that people will recognize who you are and not confuse you with other famous people?
STEWART GINN:  No, I'm not worried about that.  I know who Stewart Ginn is.  He's very happy and he's very comfortable with himself.  I just want to go and play golf.  I love playing golf.  It's a game that's very humbling, and it makes you  -- tomorrow is a new day.  Tomorrow when I wake up in the morning, I've got other wonderful things in my life to look forward to.  But this is just a wonderful memory right now.  But when I wake up on Monday morning, I've got much  -- I'll have plenty more memories to think about. 

Q.  I've heard from other people that it does bother you when people say you look like Steven Spielberg.  Is that true or is it something you laugh at?
STEWART GINN:  No, it doesn't bother me.  I laugh at it.  I mean, if I could get decent restaurant reservations or tables or get into movies looking like him, that's fine.  It doesn't worry me one bit. 
Actually, I kind of find it quite funny actually, especially being an Aussie.

Q.  Has it ever helped you get reservations or anything like that?
STEWART GINN:  Not yet, but it might now. 

Q.  Could you go over 10, 11, 12, 13, the four birdies in a row?
STEWART GINN:  Well, I just played very steady in that particular slot. 
10, I hit a good 3-wood dead center of the fairway, nice 6-iron to about six feet, made that at 10. 
Played smart at 11, 3-wood off the tee, A wedge to about six foot again, made that. 
Then on No.  12, probably one of the best shots I hit all week, a little 7-iron  -- not a little one, but a good 7-iron into 12 right into the hole, had an uphill putt, made that. 
Made a good birdie at the next hole from the trap, to about a foot, made that. 
That really set my soles right there.  I think that made the tournament for me walking onto the 14th tee. 

Q.  Can you recap 18? 
STEWART GINN:  Well, 18, I'd like to play 18 again.  I had a great drive, right where I wanted to hit it.  I hit the wrong club coming in.  I should have hit a  smooth 6-iron.  All I tried to do was just get on the front of the green, not get it past the flag.  That was probably one of my worst swings all day. 
But I was really thinking about make par, and if that was good enough, that would have been good enough to win.  But when I looked at the board, when I missed that chip, I knew I had to 2-putt to win it, unless Hubert holed his 40-footer. 

Q.  Mike McCullough 17 hit it in the water.  Did that change your thought process a little bit?
STEWART GINN:  Yeah, a little bit.  Yes, that was a very unlucky mistake he made there.  All I could do was just play up the fairway and just play.  I had a game plan.  I thought 12 under at the start of the week would have been be a good score on that golf course.  When I got to 15-under, 16-under, I thought, "Wow, that's good playing."  I thought 12-under was a good mark from the start of the week. 

Q.  You're driving around rushing to an airport right after a golf tournament.  I'm sure you've done that. 
STEWART GINN:  Yes, sir. 

Q.  Does it feel any different if you're in the Detroit area or in Japan?
STEWART GINN:  Well, a little bit different.  Probably if I was in Japan, I'd be on the Shinkansen going back to Tokyo or Osaka.  It's nice here with this tournament and this tour that you get spoiled.  I have a lovely driver beside me, driving a great Ford Grand 
Marquis, getting delivered straight to the airport.  What more could you ask for? 

Q.  I was reading in an article recently about how you controlled your temper.  How has being married and the Bible helped you in that area?
STEWART GINN:  Well, I've got to take my hat off to a couple of guys here.  I think our Dr.  Tom Randall, our senior pastor on TOUR.  Tom Randall married myself and my wife a year ago now.  He's been a great influence on my life in the last three years.  He's an absolute gem of a man.  He's one of the nicest men I've ever met.  I can go to him, I can talk to him about certain situations, and he's a big calming factor in my life, as the good Lord is, right above looking down on me now. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT