NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
April 1, 2000
Dick Bennett
Mike Kelley
Andy Kowske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH BENNETT: Well, Michigan State is, you know, clearly a superior team and showed
that today. We knew that we had to, you know, get back on defense and we were able to do
that. We knew we had to make them earn everything they got offensively, and we did that.
We knew we had to keep them off the glass, and we were unable to do that, nor were we able
to break them down. So we usually look at those four particular factors and on a couple of
occasions we were able to achieve three of the four, but we've never been able to break
them down defensively. We couldn't score inside, and they just wouldn't give us any looks
outside. So it's a tribute to one really great defensive team, Michigan State, and knowing
what has to be done. They are superb.

Q. Question for Mike. Despite the result, do you think you guys were able to dictate
the tempo and the kind of game you wanted?

MIKE KELLEY: Well, like coach said, I think we did stop them from getting a lot of
transition baskets. They got a couple of turnovers, but other than that, we got back
fairly well, and I thought we played some pretty good defense. We just couldn't, we
couldn't break them down when we were on offense. So I was satisfied with the way we
controlled the tempo. I think we did.

Q. I was hoping both players could just kind of reflect on the season, obviously didn't
maybe end the way you wanted it to once you got to the Final Four. Is this enough of an
achievement? Are you left with some regret being here?

ANDY KOWSKE: I think looking back on the season, we'll be very happy to know that we
came back from being down and, obviously, we're not pleased with the way we played today.
But with all the guys coming back next year, we're going to use this and learn from it,
and hopefully we'll get back here next year and use this to our advantage.
MIKE KELLEY: I agree. I think while we aren't happy with the way, you know, that we
lost today and we weren't able to come out and get to the Championship game, by no means
did we end on a down note. This team played real hard down the stretch and we accomplished
a lot of things.

Q. Andy, you guys defended Morris fairly well. He was 7 for 15 I think, but he had two
three-pointers there down the stretch in the second half that were pretty key. Could you
talk a little bit about those?

ANDY KOWSKE: I think he got those two threes off of double screens and we've been
working all week on hedging, one of the guys that assist the screens was hedging out. I
think the help wasn't there. When he got those two threes, those were a dagger in our
backs, definitely. You know to comment on him, he hit the big shots and, you know, that's
what put them over the edge against us.

Q. Mike, from your perspective running the offense, why weren't you able to get the
ball inside, I think you had about four six points from guys who were playing down low
today. You really struggled being able to get some inside scoring.

MIKE KELLEY: Well, we didn't take care of the ball that well. That didn't help,
certainly. And we also, with the physical style that they were playing, we didn't achieve
some early success at that and I think we shied away, probably, too early. If we could
have stuck with that, it may have helped us a little bit. But, you know, when we didn't
get it going in the beginning I think we looked a little bit to the outside shot, maybe
more than we needed to. And down the stretch our objective, you know, the last eight
minutes was to get it back inside and so we tried our best to do that. But it's still, you
know, it's still hard to do that against Michigan State.

Q. For both players, half time score, there was the usual amount of grumbling that
happens with that kind of score. Do you think people simply don't understand what you guys
do? And does it bother you that they don't?

MIKE KELLEY: It doesn't bother me, you know, we've dealt with it long enough that I was
happy with the half time score. I wanted to be ahead at half time, but to be down only two
and not have played our best half, by far, you know, we felt we could do some things to
get us back in the ball game as long as we continued to play defense. So we've never been
affected by the critics, and I think this run has showed that.
ANDY KOWSKE: I agree with Mike. We're used to people not liking our style of play. I
think they understand it, but they just don't like it. People want to see teams run, you
know, we don't do much of that. So the half time score, we wanted to keep the score low.
That means that we were controlling the pace. Like Coach said, we were able to get back
and play our pace today.

Q. Andy, could you address -- you all attempted to match their power inside and the
rebounding, disproportionate rebounding. How come?

ANDY KOWSKE: Michigan State's a great rebounding team. They proved it today. We were,
you know, we were boys against men out there. You know, just looking at these stats, it's
pretty bad. I credit them. They just, you know, they hustled after the ball, and, you
know, we didn't match their intensity today on the boards.

Q. I just want to ask the players, is this the best that Michigan State has played
against you defensively in the four games you've played against them this year?

ANDY KOWSKE: I would say so. It's just -- it seemed like they were just so intense on
defense. They just -- wouldn't let us get open. You know, I was out there setting screens
and guys were just locked on to our shooters. It affected our offense, by far this is
their best defensive game of the year.

Q. Dick, there were a few shots that you guys had that were uncontested. Either just
didn't fall or some kind of missed by a lot. To what do you attribute that?

COACH BENNETT: We appeared to be pretty tight offensively. And, you know, we -- we
really didn't make any of those shots that did present themselves that were of an easier
nature. We simply didn't finish, which has been the problem against them, you know, even
the thought that we didn't go inside enough, I actually thought we did. First half, we did
not go inside, and actually made a game of it. Second half we went inside a lot and ended
up not really coming close. We just -- they muscled us well. Our kids, I didn't think,
went up strong, particularly Vershaw, because we count on him to score. He just -- he
simply couldn't finish anything. Kowske's foul trouble in the first half hurt us a lot,
because he's, by far, our best rebounder. And we weren't able to use him.

Q. Coach, is your gut instinct, as far as your decision on next year, yourself coming
back and how does a game like this and either the elation of what you guys did or the
disappointment of tonight affect your decision?

COACH BENNETT: Well, I would be foolish if I even thought about that or tried to reason
that out at this point in time. My wife and I are going to get away for a while, and then
think about some things. My original commitment was a five-year commitment to turn the
program around. I believe that has happened. There's a good nucleus returning. There's a
good chance to recruit. Those are all very positive. As far as my stance on it, I have
learned that -- I mean I think anyone would say the same, you don't want to make a
decision when you're really elated or really depressed over a situation, you just want to
keep things where they belong. And at the appropriate time I'll know. Because a commitment
from me would be a long-term commitment, not a short one. 

Q. Dick, early on you took Vershaw out. It seemed like you weren't pleased, I think,
with his ability to set screens. Was that it? What did you say to him?

COACH BENNETT: Yes. Well, Mark and I spat often. You know, usually he's right and I'm
wrong. But today I was right. He just -- I sensed that he didn't want to -- that physical
play. I sensed it was bothering him. We just needed his screens to shake Jon Bryant. Jon
could not shake anybody off, and he was working his tail off, and those guys needed to
give him some screens. And, of course, when we lost Kowske, we lost our biggest, strongest
guy, and so I told him that and he disagreed and then I told him again, I thought he was
wrong. He told me he thought I was wrong. And we worked it out, but the fact of the matter
is he needs to learn to play against physical people.

Q. All coaches love their teams, Dick, do you have any special feelings for this
particular team? What are you going to remember about this group the most?

COACH BENNETT: Well, this team is -- will always -- will go down as one of my very
favorite, because they're more like the coach than any of them in that they're very
vulnerable, a lot of weaknesses, make a lot of mistakes. Sometimes they get a little
frightened, you know, sometimes not sure. But with a very good heart. Always try. We were
outplayed probably badly today, probably didn't look good, but I know one thing you can't
say is that we were outhustled, because we played hard for 40 minutes. And I like this
team because of their vulnerability, and in spite of that, they faced up to all comers and
never really gave any quarter.

Q. Dick, for two years now you've really struggled to match up with Morris Peterson.
You won't have to see him again. But what was your thinking coming in today? Were you
going to try to do anything a little differently?

COACH BENNETT: Yeah, I really -- he got going in the second half and he was the
difference. He posted us down, Mike got in foul trouble. But I thought defensively, we
achieved most of our goals. They run great offense. They set good screens. They post hard.
They don't turn it over, but I thought defensively we played well enough. It was the old
story, we simply couldn't break them down. I mean we -- Roy Boone was the one guy who,
perhaps, could, but that's -- that's a double-edged sword. I see he had, like, five
turnovers, yet he made some excellent plays. And so you're kind of caught in between. Do
you play with great aggressiveness knowing that you're probably going to turn it over and
let them get going? Or do you try to control that tempo and be selective? We chose to do
that, and it didn't work out.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT