ROLAND GARROS
September 30, 2020
Martina Trevisan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  M. TREVISAN/C. Gauff
 4-6, 6-2, 7-5
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How did it feel to get over the line and win your first win of your career?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   Sorry, can you repeat.
 Q. It was the biggest win of your career.
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   Yes.
 Q. How did it feel to win in the end over such a big opponent?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   Right now actually I'm not feeling nothing because I just finished the match.  So of course I'm really happy, but I think I need more time to realize what happened tonight.  So now I'm going to take a shower, to do massage and tomorrow morning maybe we can talk about the match.
 Q. Towards the end there was a really big call when the umpire pointed out a different mark.  How did you like forget it and move on from it?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   Yeah, I'm sure that the mark was out, so I think everybody could see the mark out.  And at the moment I was a little bit nervous because of course I saw the mark out, but I tried to focus in the point in 5-All and 6-5 and then at the end I won the match.
 Q. What was your kind of mentality going into the match playing against Coco and also what, during the match kind of managing the emotions of such a tight match?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   Yeah, before the match of course I talk with my coach about the match, but the important things today that I came in the court without thinking that I had to play with Coco Gauff, because everybody know that is the most, the best young player in the world, so I came to the court to play my match and not to see my opponent.
 So I think this is the key of the match.  I play every point without thinking that Coco is better than me ranking, she has a lot of experience in this court than me.  So that's the key of the match.
 Q. In your career you've always been ranked around like 150.  Did you always believe you could get a win like this and reach this stage of a Grand Slam?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   Yes, of course, I work every day to be here, to be in the third round of Grand Slam.  It's not easy to reach this result but I wake up every morning to think about my dream, and today it realized one of my dream.
 Q. What do you think changed for you in this tournament compared with others?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   I think the mentality because every match that I played I came on court to think about my tennis, to think about my shot, think about hold my court, not to think about the opponent, so that's why I'm here.
 Q. I heard you yelling obviously "forte," but also "allez" a lot.  Do you have a connection to France in some way?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   No, no, no, no.
 Q. You just like yelling it?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   I don't have any connection to France but Le Coq Sportif is French, but I don't have any connection to France.  But in Italian "allez" is like French, but I don't have any connection.  Just the sponsor, because it's French.
 Q. Then looking ahead you play Maria Sakkari.  Can you just talk about how well you know her game and what do you think will be the challenge for you in that match?
 MARTINA TREVISAN:   Of course I know her so good, so well, and for the moment I don't think about the match of Friday, I think.  So we will see tomorrow when we come and we will see tomorrow.  I don't think right now to the match ahead.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT