NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2014
Gary Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  GARY HARRIS:   Just thankful to be in this position and be able to be a part of the Nuggets organization. 

Q.   Yesterday you talked about how much you couldn't wait for this process to be over.   How nice is it to know now where you're going to be, where you're going to be living?   Is it exciting? 
GARY HARRIS:   It's a lot better.   To know where I'm finally going is definitely a relief.

Q.   What do you think about the fit with the Nuggets? 
GARY HARRIS:   I'm looking forward to it.   I'm ready to get there and work and definitely earn a position there.   Nothing's going to be given to me.   I feel like it would be a great spot. 

Q.   Did you work out for the Denver Nuggets?   Did you have a sense that Denver was interested in you?   How do you feel like you're going to contribute to that team? 
GARY HARRIS:   Yes, I did work out for them.   To start off, I'm just going to go in there and play hard and do whatever they ask me to do.

Q.   Gary, talk about the motivation you have falling a little bit down in the first round, but also, too, being part of a Denver Nuggets team that needs a little bit of leadership as well as defense.   So talk about how you'll be able to contribute to that. 
GARY HARRIS:   Like I kind of alluded to my last question, I just want to go in there and put in work and just be able to go in there with the right attitude working every day and doing everything I can to help contribute to the team. 

Q.   Tell me about the thought process that you get drafted, you get excited, you stand up, you go to one team, it's a pretty good team, it's excitement, and then a few steps, you go to a whole different city, whole different thought process, whole different history.   Describe that feeling because not too many people go through that. 
GARY HARRIS:   I think it was easier for me to deal with it because I knew that the Nuggets had that Bulls 16th pick because I knew the trade before.   So once I knew that Chicago would supposedly draft me, I knew I was still going to Denver. 

Q.   Brian Shaw is a brilliant‑‑ is a very good young coach, and he has a lot of experience in championship situations.   Are you looking forward to being able to get some good advice from him on how to be a professional and how to be a winner? 
GARY HARRIS:   No, I'm going there and going to learn.   Definitely a new process for me.   Never been in the situation before.   So I'm looking forward to going there to learn a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT