U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
Aaron Watkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you assess that round?
AARON WATKINS:   Other than the three‑putt on the last, I would say it was pretty good.

Q.   I missed that. 
AARON WATKINS:   I hit a lot of fairways.   I hit a lot of greens.   I gave myself a lot of looks.   That's what you've got to do out here.   I didn't make many putts out here today but I tried to take advantage of the times I could.   And luckily it kind of worked out that way.

Q.   When you stood at the first tee, what is your mindset going into this round?   Are you thinking?
AARON WATKINS:   You try not to.   I'd be lying if I wasn't thinking about making the cut and playing the weekend.   But just trying to do the same things I was doing yesterday.   Just trying to pick out good lines on the fairways.   I was trying to give up yardages to make (inaudible) in the short grass.   And luckily it worked out.   Sometimes it can back fire, but it didn't, not today.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
AARON WATKINS:   You know, I really don't know.   The game, it happened all last year, too.   I would play three really good rounds, and I'd have one that was kind of average.   And I ended up getting lapped.   But the course is so difficult here where you can afford to make a couple of bogeys.   Nationwide Tour, on the other hand, you've got to pretty much birdie every other hole.
I don't really know.   The game always feels good.   It's just a matter of going out and shooting scores.

Q.   You have to be proud of yourself that you put yourself in this position on a very tough course going into the weekend?
AARON WATKINS:   I was proud of myself just making the tournament, let alone this is just a bonus.   I can't complain with how things have been going.   I'm just looking forward to playing the weekend this week.

Q.   Let me ask you a question about the ten stroke rule that has now been abolished.   Do you have any feelings about that?   You were aware of that‑‑ they said they let you all know?
AARON WATKINS:   It was in one of the sheets they gave us that it had been abolished.   I don't have any feelings about it right now, because I'm not outside the number.   But it's been that way for as long as I can remember.   So other than players just adjusting to it and not playing just to be ten shots from the lead, I think that will be the biggest thing.

Q.   So if you were a betting man, what would you think is going to be leading this at the halfway point, given that you've seen the opinions, you know what might be in store?
AARON WATKINS:   If the wind picks up the way it's supposed to I would probably say 3‑under.   But if the wind stays like this it would be a different story.   They have a couple of pins out there that you can get at.

Q.   Such as?
AARON WATKINS:   I couldn't remember off the top of my head. 

Q.   How do you temper the need to get back up the leaderboard with the fact that this is a difficult course to play?   How do you make that approach without giving away strokes?
AARON WATKINS:   It's already so difficult, I'm already worrying enough about myself, so I don't need to start looking at the leaderboard and worrying about that, because you can be a little bit off and you can be even at one point and you can be 6‑over two holes later.   I just try not to think about it and try to keep doing what I've been doing.

Q.   With the wind coming up today obviously a lot of people may come back to you.   That sort of makes it fairly nice for you to try to get yourself further up the leaderboard tomorrow.   How do you approach their round?
AARON WATKINS:   You know, I don't know what the conditions are going to be like tomorrow.   But I've got to keep doing what I've been doing, just giving myself opportunities and hopefully I'll get a few more putts to fall on the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT