TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2009
Aaron Watkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   AARON WATKINS: I wanted to make a few birdies and make a few pars and call it a day, but made a couple stupid mistakes on 13 and 14, you know, had a couple of good comebacks on the next couple holes, which kind of got me back, but I still hit two bad shots and laid two bogeys and don't need to do that tomorrow. 

 Q. Are the greens different from yesterday with the water? Much slower than they were yesterday?
 AARON WATKINS: No. It's not that they're slower. They might not be running out as much. You know, yesterday afternoon you had runout a little bit, so it was a little more difficult. 

 Q. How tough is that adjustment to make when sometimes you've gotta make it mid-round. Kenny was saying like the last nine or ten holes for him, he saw a big difference in the greens. Is that an adjustment you have to make mid-round?
 AARON WATKINS: It's something you have to look at. If you hit a putt that comes up about four feet short, you obviously know the greens are a little bit slower. But the Back 9 the rain started coming, you know with a little water on the ground it's going to be slower, so it's a little easier to judge when you know that. 
 So if I'm confident, I'm going to keep rolling it, and if I hit three feet by, I hit it three feet by.

 Q. Do we make too much of the fact Kenny's been here 21 years, and obviously he knows the course pretty well. Obviously you don't know the course nearly as well. Do we make too much of that or do you think that's been an advantage for a guy like him and something you need to adjust to?
 AARON WATKINS: You know, it could go both ways. You know, him being here 21 years, I'm sure he's had some good years and I'm sure he's had some bad years. 
 So me, I don't have any good years and I don't have any bad years. I'm just going off my first two rounds, so right now, everything's been good. That's what I'm going to go with into the weekend. 

 Q. Thank you. 
 AARON WATKINS: It's something you have to go for, and kind of get you past that and keep my game plan for the next two days and see where it takes me. 

 Q. And did the experience in New Orleans, I imagine that really helped, being in contention down the stretch. 
 AARON WATKINS: Yeah, it did. I was really nervous Saturday and Sunday, but I think going into this Saturday and Sunday being through that is going to help me a little bit.

 Q. The red Travelers umbrella, so you got the red plaid pants on today. Are we going to get brighter, as the week goes on? 
 AARON WATKINS: We got some orange plaid, orange shoes, maybe some blue plaid. I don't know what's going to come out first.

 Q. Are you trying to give John Bailey a run for the money in the crazy pants department?
 AARON WATKINS: I'll see what I can come up with, give him a run. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT