ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 1, 2020
Shakera Selman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
England - 143/5, West Indies - 97/9   
 Q.  You came into this tournament with high expectations. You had some key players back. What's gone wrong for you in these last couple of games?  
SHAKERA SELMAN: We didn't play our best in this entire tournament. We struggled against Thailand, obviously we've been defeated against Pakistan, and then we didn't show with the bat today at all against England, and I guess we didn't deserve to go through.   
 Q.  A lot of -- there's players that came back brought experience. Can you put your finger on why that didn't perhaps help the team come together in the way you wanted?  
SHAKERA SELMAN: Yeah, it was good to have Dottin back. She'd been out for a while with an injury, and myself, I was out for a while with an injury, so it was good to have these senior players back, but obviously experience doesn't count for anything if you're not performing. The senior players obviously needed to step up and execute, and we didn't do that in this tournament.   
 Q.  Do you think the fact that there were people coming back from injuries meant that the team struggled to gel back together, and was there any sort of, I guess, not lack of familiarity but just lack of sort of blend there?  
SHAKERA SELMAN: I wouldn't say that. Obviously we would have fought that. Deandra would have been back before, so she would have gotten in at least a series before this tournament, but we still had quite a number of people who had been playing constantly, but look at this way: We haven't been playing well for the last year or so, and I guess it just continued into this tournament.   
 Q.  From a batting perspective, strike rotation has been a real problem. There were so many dot balls down the middle of that innings. What do you put that down to?  
SHAKERA SELMAN: I guess we didn't really stick to the basics, and I don't think we were positive enough. We work really hard in the nets. Our rotation is straight. Everything we did wrong, we practiced in the game, we just didn't execute all through the middle.   
 Q.  This team has a lot of similarities to the team that have played in previous tournaments. Is that a worry for you going forward, that the players who were delivering four years ago and two years ago are struggling to hit those heights now?  
SHAKERA SELMAN: Yeah, of course it's a worry. I think any team worries when their senior players aren't performing. Obviously there are things that we can go back and look at, but obviously that hurts.   
 Q.  Where do you go now as a team?  
SHAKERA SELMAN: I think the only way is forward. I don't think we can get any lower than this. We haven't qualified to the semifinals. Obviously we expected to get to the group stage, although many people didn't have us to qualify. We know what we're capable of as a team, and I think our next series is so far ahead in June, hopefully we can actually perform the way we know we can.   
 Q.  Just on how the run chase was starting to build this evening before Stafanie went down, did that sort of knock the team quite badly there? If she'd stayed for another three or four overs you might have had a chance at the back end to chase that?  
SHAKERA SELMAN: Yeah, obviously Stafanie is our best player. She's been our best player over her entire career. It hurt the team to lose her there, but look, we still had a lot of experience coming in, and I thought that the players we had coming in could have still rotated straight enough to put England back under some pressure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT