ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2008
Jill Pilgrim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JILL PILGRIM: What I can explain is that we, as you all know, have a drug testing protocol and a set of procedures. And all of our players were educated throughout the year, and most of last year that in any LPGA official competition in 2008, that they are subject to being selected for drug testing. So we followed our protocol, and we're testing a number of players here today. 

 Q. So you could conceivably be tested every time you play? 
 JILL PILGRIM: We've had a number of players this year get back-to-back tests. Especially on days when we were doing multiple days of competition, they've been selected day one and day two. So, you know. 

 Q. Can you say how many you tested this week? 
 JILL PILGRIM: No, we never give out the numbers of players that we're testing.

 Q. I know. It's just a little hard to get your head around for us when we know that she's probably not playing anymore going forward. Can you see where we're coming from on that? 
 JILL PILGRIM: You know what, I've been doing drug testing for a long time. The numbers come up, and you test the players whose numbers come up. I think if I were a player, you know, the notion that someone would be exempt for some special reason -- everyone in the field was subject to drug testing. So they all had an equal opportunity to be selected for drug testing. We followed our protocol. 

 Q. So there was absolutely no consideration given to consider the fact that these circumstances were different and special? She's who she is, I think it certainly --
 JILL PILGRIM: We follow our protocol. We'd never take into consideration anything that is not within the four corners of our protocol. That's what the drug testing program is. That is what the integrity of the drug testing program is. 
 Nobody is treated differently or special. We followed the four corners of our protocol. 

 Q. Was the commissioner consulted on any of this? 
 JILL PILGRIM: No, the commissioner is aware of our drug testing program to the extent that she knows what any employee of the LPGA is doing. I guess you could say she's consulted, but not consulted on the specifics of what we do, who we select, anything like that.

 Q. Is she aware that Annika had been selected and would be tested? 
 JILL PILGRIM: I can't imagine how she would know that.

 Q. She didn't know? 
 JILL PILGRIM: I don't know how she would know that.

 Q. When was the last time Annika was tested? 
 JILL PILGRIM: We don't talk about who is tested, when they're tested, how many times they're tested. If a player chooses to give you that information, that's her prerogative. 
 But we have many players that have been tested multiple times, including back-to-back tournaments, including back-to-back days. 

 Q. She would have been informed coming off 18 or do you know previous? 
 JILL PILGRIM: The protocol indicates that a player can be notified after she finishes competition. It doesn't say when or where that should take place. It can take place any time after she's completed competition. 

 Q. You have to follow this clinically to the letter, and variables are not part of it. Your number comes up, that's it, and there's no emotion, there's no outside extraneous things. No, I understand why, you're the policeman?
 JILL PILGRIM: I might be emotional at times about different things, but that's not my job. My job is to follow the protocol. Because at the end of the day, if the LPGA does not follow the protocol, and we are brought into litigation or arbitration, we will be liable for not following the protocol. 
 So, you know, we follow the protocol because we want to keep everything fair for every player. That's the way you keep it fair. You follow the protocol, the procedures don't care vary because of any particular set of circumstances. You know, so that's just the way it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT