KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2008
Chris Guinty
Jill Pilgrim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CONNIE WILSON: Going to introduce Jill Pilgrim who is LPGA general counsel and our drug testing program administrator. We've got many questions about the drug testing program and really what happens from the time a player is notified through the sample collection process and we wanted to run you threw that here as an education session here and I'm going to turn it over to Jill to run through our role playing here and if you can hold your questions, we'll take questions afterwards. 
 JILL PILGRIM: We do not want to you rate the acting that we'll be doing here. So let me give you a bit of background in terms of what happens before we get to tournament sites it terms of preparations, and there's some documents being handed out to you so you'll see a little of what we're talking about.
 We at the LPGA staff work with the tournaments in advance in terms of obviously the setup for drug testing. 
 In order to have an effective drug testing program, you have to have not only all the legal documents but you need to have a good work space in which to conduct the drug testing and you also in our system, we use volunteer escorts to notify the player, similar to what is done in the Olympic Games and per Olympic sport, and the volunteers are educated as to what their limited role in this process is as volunteers, which is to simply effectuate the notification of the player and then bring the player to the site of drug testing. 
 And there are documents in the training session that we do the morning of a drug testing day, we will meet with the volunteers who have agreed to work as escorts for that tournament, and we will give them the paperwork, one of the documents that you have, it has the one through nine on it, confidentiality, conflict of interest, discretion. 
 We go through this document with the volunteers and explain to them what we are asking them to do. We ask them to be discrete and confidential about what they are doing. We certainly don't want an escort once finished escorting a player to run and start telling their friends, oh, she said this happened and that happened. It's a discreet act we are asking them to do to help us out with the drug testing product.
 We ask that volunteers whether any of them have personal friendships or relationships with any of the players or if they are a family member of the tournament organizer, if they say yes to those questions, we thank them for their interest in volunteering and say because we want to avoid any conflict of interest, we are going to not use them as a volunteer escort for the drug testing program. 
 One of the things we educate them about is what to do if a player is uncooperative when we notify them about the selection for drug testing and in that event we don't want any complications. It's not the escort's responsibility to comply with drug testing. The players know that the drug testing program is part of the LPGA player regulations, and that they are bound to comply with those regulations when they sign up as a member of the LPGA. 
 And it's really on the player to comply or not to comply, and as long as the player understands that there are consequences if we don't cooperate, we are not asking our escorts to do anything other than to notify the player that she has been selected and escort her into the drug testing. 
 We also educate the escorts about the fact that if they get a player whose first language is not English and is having problems understanding what's going on, that they should make sure that the player understands that they are entitled to an interpreter, and the interpreter can come with them throughout the drug testing process. 
 Also, if there is a player who is a minor in the field and is fortunate enough to be selected for drug testing, then that player should have a parent or guardian with her going through the drug testing process. There's some additional instructions on the instruction sheet. 
 After we go through that education with the volunteers, we basically ask them whether they are interested in continuing as a volunteer, and if they say that they are willing to play that role, we sign them up and we tell them -- we ask them to come back at certain times that coincide with approximately, you know, 45 minutes to an hour before the player they are going to escort is going to be leaving the course. 
 When they do come for the notification process, the notification form in your pact, and we give the escorts the notification form, it has the player's name on it, and we accepted them off with a pen to effectuate the notification process. 
 We are going to do a little role play for you as soon as I can get my voice back. 
 So I am a deployed escort who is waiting for my player to appear. 

 (Role playing. Jill playing LPGA Volunteer Escort, Donna playing LPGA Player, Chris Guinty playing self/Drug-Free Sport Lab Representative).

 PLAYER ESCORT: Excuse me, Donna? Hi, I'm Jill Pilgrim. I'm a volunteer that's working here with the tournament and the LPGA, and I have been asked to notify you that you have been selected for drug testing. 
 And I have this form here that explains the process, and there's a notification form, and what I'd like you to do is look at this form and read this paragraph here that explains the different things that you need to do in the next hour to comply with the drug testing program, and then what's going to happen is that I'm going to stay with you and escort you to the drug testing station when you're ready to go tested.
 LPGA PLAYER: Okay, do I have to do this right now or can I do it a little bit later?
 PLAYER ESCORT: It says right now you have to 60 minutes from now, and we're going to record the time on the sheet in a moment. 
 So if you want to go off and do something else, you're welcome to but you have to stay within the tournament site, and just understand I'll be with you wherever you go and I'll be your chaperone until we go to the drug testing station. So if you want to go putt, or is there something you want to go do, do you have to go do media or something?
 LPGA PLAYER: Actually do I need to go run over to media for a minute, and after that I would like to hit a couple of putts if I have time. 
 PLAYER ESCORT: That's fine, before we do that -- let's do this. I have a pen here and I'll record the time. You will see that I'm writing that time on the form. And that is your name here; correct? Will you please take a moment before we go and read that statement there. 
 LPGA PLAYER: Do you want a phone number or my cell number? 
 PLAYER ESCORT: That would be great if we could have your cell number in case anything comes up later. I'm just going to shadow you until you're ready." 
So then I'm just following her. (Indicating LPGA Player going to media and then to putting green).
 LPGA PLAYER: Okay I think I'm ready. Were we okay on time? 
 PLAYER ESCORT: Yeah, we've only used about half an hour, so that's good. Let's go over here towards the doping control station. 
 Donna, I want to introduce you to Dan, and this is Chris. They are with our testing agency, the National Center for Drug-Free Sport, and they are going to help you with the rest of the process. Here is Donna's paperwork. 
 CHRIS GUINTY (Playing self): Thank you. 
 PLAYER ESCORT: And she's all yours now. 
 CHRIS GUINTY: Donna, are you ready to provide a sample for us today? I just wanted to inform you that once you are in our drug testing facility, you'll have to remain there until we get the process completely finished. Is that okay? Are you ready to head in? All right, let's go. 

 CHRIS GUINTY: Briefly I will just, for the audience, I will from time to time come out of character, if you will, and describe what you see on the table so you're familiar with all of this equipment. It's probably the first time a lot of you may have seen this. So I'll try to make that completely clear when I disengage from Donna. 
 CHRIS GUINTY: My name is Chris Guinty, and I'm the vice president for Drug-Free Sport. 
 So, Donna, how are you today? 
 LPGA PLAYER: Good. How are you? 
 CHRIS GUINTY: Good, thank you very much. The first thing we'll do is actually check your identification, and what we will do is input your identification information into our handheld computer system. Much like a FedEx machine, probably seen something similar when you sign FedEx packages, if not, very similar to what you see in the grocery stores. If you have a picture identification to verify who you are? Fantastic. Do you have an LPGA number for the LPGA Tour? 
 LPGA PLAYER: Yes, 33425. 
 (Demonstrating drug testing procedure).
 CHRIS GUINTY: We always ask for an identification for the athlete or the player that we are working with, and if they do not have a picture ID, whether it's a passport, driver's license, could be a foreign driver's license, anything with picture on it will be good enough. If you use the media guide, we use what we call distributional representative, high-ranking staff member and verify that that player is who they say they are basically.
 We'll scan that code in, and hit yes, and this allows us to hit yes and scans in the speaker number into our system. We use a completely paperless system at Drug-Free Sport. We're the only drug free testing company in sport that does that, and what it allows to us do is increase efficiency of this process. If I were just going through this process without the commentary, it would take about five to ten minutes to get an athlete out the door. It also increases confidentiality. 
 There's not a lot of paper floating around with Donna's signature or a high-profile athlete's signature, and confidential information obviously that we expect and this is designed for confidentiality and speed in the drug testing process to get this player out the door, back on the putting green or driving range or to dinner if they are tired and to bed so they can participate the next day. 
 So we have scanned her beaker in, and what we would do now is ask Donna to go to the restroom, and we have what we call a validator, and the validator in our business is somebody that actually watches Donna go to the restroom, and observes collection. All collection in sport, whether it's male or female, they are all observed nowadays from the Olympic movement to all the professional organizations. Our company does work for most of the special leagues in America, and all of those collections are observed. So there's no difference in how all of the other leagues handle it. 
 So Donna would go and be observed in the collection process for the female validator and come back with a urine sample. And I would ask you to put that on that towel right there for me, and what I'm going to do now is ask you to pick out one of those kits, and it will be sent to the laboratory and make sure it's sealed. All of our kits are sealed. And if you could please select a set of bar codes there for your sample. 
 Now these bar codes are very important. These are actually what the lab will know you as. They will know you as a number and they will not know you by name. When we send a sample to the laboratory, they will actually test it based on this number and base report back based on this number. So it's an important step that you verify all these numbers are the same. 
 So do that for me? Perfect. Thank you. 
 Audience, this is what we call our specimen seals. They are bar coded and they are unique, numbered seals. They will never be duplicated, and from now on Donna's sample will be known by this number, and we will scan this into the system very shortly. And this is how she will be known to us from now on; not to lose your identity.
 So what we will do now is I will take this, if you could open that up and open the seals up on that. I will do a couple of preliminary tests on your sample. 
 Now this is not the actual test itself. What we do is we actually just test the specific gravity of your sample to see if it's concentrated enough for our laboratory to test the sample. And basically if you're too dilute, if it's just water coming out of your system, the laboratory has a hard time analyzing the sample so we have a threshold we have to maintain. Most of the women coming off the course are going to be dehydrated enough so it won't be an issue, but we do an on-site test to make sure the laboratory can test the sample. 
 What I'm testing now is called a refractometer. It's a handheld electronic refractometer that gives us the specific gravity of the sample and begun just to ensure the laboratory can test that sample once we send that in and the laboratory has given us those guidelines on what they need and we also test for the pH. 
 The pH strip, obviously they are not reading anything because this is just water today. We are looking at the pH strip to make sure it correspond to certain levels, and we just have to have a certain range of pH, very similar to a pool test if you're familiar with those. 
 So those are well within range, and what we will do now, and our collector also wear gloves, by the way, and so she's taken the seals off of these vials. This is an A Vial and a B Vial, and I will explain the difference in just one moment. 
 And I will pour the urine into these vials now, and our collector does this, and there's really one reason for that and it's because we have experienced sometimes in the past, sometimes athletes don't want to do this process because of urine involved and sometimes spills, if they are shaky and things like, and our collectors are experts in this and they really don't have a problem. We will record the specific gravity of the pH in the computer system right after I get the urine in these vials. 
 This is all trash at this point, and we have a trash normally here to put that in.
 So we would have recorded Donna's specific gravity, which is well within range. We will record your pH on this form which is within range, and now what we will do, we will scan in the bigger bar code that she put on her beaker and what that does is it enables us to pull back up her record in the system. 
 The sample, the bar code, the beaker bar code isn't really very important in drug testing and all it does is it ensures that we can have her record in our system and it ensures she comes back from the restroom with the same beaker that she left with. So really the most important number is this number that she's picked out. 
 So this will pull your record back up here, Donna, and the drop-down menu, you will record your specific draft, and I will record your pH, and what I will do now is affix these seals on to the vial that we pour your urine into. 
 We put these seals on pretty good, and we'll have Donna examine those seals to ensure that nobody can get in there without us knowing that somebody got in there. Does that look good? 
 If those seals were to be ripped on the actual lid when it showed up at the laboratory, we would throw the sample out and it would be what we call a fatal flaw and we would do a retest at some time based on the LPGA's direction. 
 We ship this on a commercial shipper Federal Express overnight it to the laboratory so they get that the next day.
 What we do is we put the vials into this bag and it has an absorbent strip in that bag based on Department of Transportation regulations. We seal this bag up and I'll place this, the complete sample, no paperwork, and try to be as green as possible at drug-free sport. Can't eliminate paper entirely, but we're doing our best.
 And what we do is there's two little seals that she's picked out, and we'll put those on her form. I'll place these little seals, and put one on the copy that you'll receive. You'll get a copy and a receipt for today for the drug test. I will scan that in, and this is real important, make sure that that number, 333410 will be assigned to you, and then ask that that's correct. And that's the same number that's on your seal and it's the same number that's on your sample. So I will put yes, and I will put this aside for the time being.
 What I will do, seal this box now that we have verified all that, and put another seal on, make sure nobody can get in that box without us knowing about it, and that's your number again. 
 What I'll have my staff do is the person that went into the restroom with you is sign this, saying they went into the restroom, saw you urinate and come back and place the urine on our table, and sign. 
 What I will ask you to do is read that statement and basically the statement is that if you want to see a screen of this -- I can show it to you after this, but the statement says the procedure was carried out in accordance with protocol; that our collector walked her into the restroom, monitored her giving a sample, escorted her back, monitored her the entire time, the urine was not out of her control, she came down and watched me do the two tests, the pH and specific gravity, pour the urine into the vials and package it up and seal it up. 
 If she does not agree to, it if she feels the protocol was breached in some way, she can decline that. What we do is we keep the sample, send the sample to the laboratory, and what she does now is provide another sample for us and we'll go through the process until she's comfortable. 
 She has felt comfortable with the process and accepted that and signed that. I will sign it as a collector, and we also have a space for a witness. If we have an interpreter or if there's a minor and they have a parent and they want to serve as a witness, we also allow that interpreter or witness to sign this device and we'll capture that signature.
 Again, the signature is much like you would just sign electronically at any grocery store or FedEx machine, and you can't see it, but I'll just act like I'm signing that and get it done.
 At this point I just hit done, the computer thinks, and it will not let us close out a record for Donna if we have forgotten any step. The other nice thing about this device is it doesn't let us get the date wrong or close the record out without signatures; and once she's done, she's done. We won't have to track her down on the course and get her to come back for missing information. I call it idiot-proof, but our collectors have pushed back on that statement, they don't like being called idiots but I assured them I wasn't. It closes her record out and now she moves from the pending status to the completed status, and we would go on to the next collection.
 Again if I were running through this quickly, we would get this done this in five to ten minutes. And now before Donna would leave, she would get her receipt, which is this form. We feel that all of our athletes should get a receipt. And so Donna, I will give you this receipt, and what is it has on it is your name, the organization, the collection date, and it has the specimen number that you've collected that we've scanned into the system. 
 This will be shipped to the laboratory overnight, the laboratory will test this sample and results will come back anywhere from three to five days for negative and the laboratory usually gets all results back within 14 days, ten to 14 days and you'll be notified of those results when they come back from the laboratory. 
 Any questions on this entire process? 
 JILL PILGRIM: Before Donna leaves the podium, what would have happened when you were in your stage there and you asked her to confirm that process went smoothly; what would have happened if they thought the process didn't go smoothly? 
 CHRIS GUINTY: If she didn't think the protocols were followed, she would have hit decline on her screen, we would have closed her record out similar to what we do. We just package up the sample and still send it into the laboratory. 
 And what we would do then is completely start the process over, she would collect the beaker and another beaker bar code and she would go probably not immediately because she would need to work up another urine sample and go to the restroom and come back and we would start this process over. 
 We would also write down on her form, on her specimen processing form why she thought the process didn't go smoothly and whether she was not observed or whether the collector looked away; whether she thought the collector was being argumentative, whatever it might be, whatever the athlete feels. We will write this down so we have some document of record. 
 So there needs to be some objective record of what went wrong during the process as opposed to I just didn't feel -- and she could say that; I just didn't feel like it was done accurately. But we will write that down so we have a record of that and we will collect another sample and send that sample to the laboratory for analysis that she's comfortable with. So really the athlete is empowered in that situation to decline that.
 We don't have that happen very often, if at all. Our collectors are professionals and trained paramedics, firefighters, EMTs. Some are doctors, some are lawyers, but our collecting crews are very professional. They go through an annual training every year to train them on specific techniques of professional sports drug testing collection. They have been out there collecting many, many samples over the prior years and all of them are professionals that have been involved in professional sports drug testing before. 
 So, she is free to go. 
 (Concluding demonstration).

 Q. So Drug-Free Sport is administering the program? 
 JILL PILGRIM: They are handling our education and collection, yes. 

 Q. I'm confused. They were doing it and weren't doing it, and now they are doing is; is that correct? 
 JILL PILGRIM: Well, they are here and they are handling our collections and --

 Q. Let me rephrase the question. Who administered the program at the Fields Open? 
 JILL PILGRIM: What I'd like to do, and I do want to answer your question, but what I'd like to do is see if we have any questions about the collection process and the demonstration that we did here, and then afterwards, if you want to ask questions about who is doing what.
 But what we would like to be efficient in terms of Drug-Free Sport's time here and make sure that we have fulfilled the purpose of the -- the initial purpose of this session, which is to discuss the collection process. 
 And I'll be happy to answer that question afterwards. 

 Q. (What happens if the player's escort loses or can't find the player)?
 JILL PILGRIM: That's a good question. We hope we don't have a scenario where the escort would lose the player. In the 20 or some years I've done this, I've seen that happen only once or twice. 
 So if that did happen, and the escort wasn't able to connect with the player, what we would expect to happen is that the escort would come and tell Mindy or myself or one of the LPGA staff that they have trouble locating the player, and we would do our best to see if we could locate the player, whether she's gone to the player locker room. 
 We would take the escort with us because we still would want the escort to effectuate the notification. But if for some reason the player could not be found on that day, then we obviously wouldn't be able to test that player, and what we would likely do is schedule her for a test shortly after that at a next time that we were testing. 
 So we did work with the National Center for Drug-Free Sport with your organization in the process of developing the program, I believe they started in 2006 before I was on staff, and then throughout 2007. We worked with your colleague on helping us develop the prohibited substance list and as we were developing the parameters of the program, the medical waiver process you all helped us with. 
 And after that, we went through a competitive bidding process for the actual implementation of our program in 2008. We had, I think there were about five testing agencies along with Drug-Free Sport that had been in on our work that were all excellent agencies and capable of doing the job. 
 At the time we made the decision to go with CDT as our collection agency at the beginning of 2008, and we subsequently decided that we should have gone with Drug-Free Sport, and we have made the decision to move forward with Drug-Free Sport with our program going forward. 

 Q. There has been a perception out there for a number of years that in athletic circles that the so-called masking substance, the technology for masking substances has been consistently ahead of the detection technology. You're on the detection end; I wonder if you can speak to that perception? 
 CHRIS GUINTY: Yes, there has been that perception. I can't speak to it with a lot of -- because it it's a laboratory issue, and we use all accredited laboratories in our professional sports programs. And those laboratories are constantly staying ahead of the game in detecting manipulation of substances or adulterating substances. 
 But the laboratories would be the one to speak as to the science behind identification of those substances. But we do work with extremely qualified scientists that are out there combatting that daily.

 Q. Just wondering how many collectors will be on site generally, how many players? 
 CHRIS GUINTY: The collectors that we assign to a particular site will be dependent on the number of players; not a great answer, because I can't give that you number. If I had it, I probably couldn't give you that number, but I don't have that information. 
 But what we'll do is whole get direction from the LPGA as to how many players they would like to test and which events, which once we have that information, we will assign our collectors based on that number. 
 We do have a way to figure out how many collectors will be necessary to efficiently move through the process of collecting. We will never under staff in advance. If anything, we will over-staff in advance to make sure the players get out of the drug testing facility expeditiously. 
 We know the players are not on Tour to drug test, but it's part of the sport and game now. But our goal is to get the players in and out of the drug testing room as quickly as possible. 
 Really the only thing that holds it up is the urine sample from the player, and the biology of it. Once we get that from the player, we can really process in five to ten minutes and very rarely is there a backlog for a wait. 
 Now if we have a rush at any particular time, we move through that as quickly as possible but really the urine nation process that causes any delay.
 But our collectors, believe it or not, are professionals in helping these players feel comfortable giving a urine sample. A lot of times we find that the urine sample cannot be provided because of shy bladder, things like that. And our collectors are very skilled in communicating with players and befriending them; not to the point of where they jeopardize the task, but you know, they really have a way of communicating with the players and making them feel comfortable with the process and explaining everything that happens. 
 I think a lot of times, the players might feel that they don't know what this device is and what this device is and it scares them a little bit. If it explains to them, it allows them to go through the process much quicker. 
 The only time we would have one collector -- and it would not apply to this situation. We do have one collector for certain weeks we work with, and we do off-season testing and if we were going to a player's house to do a collection, normally we would send one collector to do that single collection. 
 But even then often times we'll send two collectors for safety reasons, for documentation reasons and things like that. But our environment at the LPGA we will never have one collector on site for a collection. 

 Q. Which other sports organizations do you work with? 
 CHRIS GUINTY: We do all the collegiate testing for the NCAA. Professional sports, we do work with the NBA. We do work with Major League Baseball's Minor League Program, and we were hired to do work for the PGA TOUR and recently were also hired to do work for four state -- well now four state high school associations: The State of Texas, Illinois recently announced, New Jersey, and Florida. 
 So we have a vast array of experience within the drug testing realm, and professionals included. We've done work for other professionals, clients, can't name for confidentiality reasons, but those are the ones publicly that we work with. 

 Q. We were given a list in advance, and is that list still the operative list?
 JILL PILGRIM: That is the operative list. We have not changed the list at all. 

 Q. You're probably not going to want to answer this, but is there an operative number of the number of players that need to be tested and the number of tests that need to be conducted over the course of a season to make the process valid? 
 CHRIS GUINTY: The answer is no. And that's the best answer I can give, not a definitive answer, but more than one, and less than a certain number. 
 But you know, an effective program really, it's just a variety of testing at different locations, and what we try not to do is be predictable. And that's really what allows us to have an effective program. 
 We want to be transparent with the drug testing programs with the media and program, and so they know what's going on and we are not trying to hide anything and nobody is here trying to hide what we are doing. 
 And part of that is the testing process, the collection of who is getting tested randomly, and we are not trying to hide that information; but obviously we can't be too predictable on that information and there's ways to get around the system. 

 Q. Would a player be tested at least once in the course of a season?
 JILL PILGRIM: No, we are not going to do that. We are still sticking with the random and an occasional target test. 
 But as we said before, it's a combination of deterrents as well as prevention, so every model in drug testing, all of the ones that I know don't test every single athlete. 
 What they do is collectively whether random, combinations of random and tar get testing, I would say that you really want the deterrent effect in the fact that the player knows that it's possible that they could be tested so they changed their behavior because they don't know whether they are going to be tested or not, so they are presuming that their number could come up. 

 Q. When a player is notified, is there anything they are not allowed to bring with them when they come in? 
 CHRIS GUINTY: People, for one, unless it's an interpreter or a parent. But no entourages or anything like that. 
 We restrict cell phone use in our site for a lot of reasons; I'll give you two. One is confidentiality. With technology today cell phones with cameras and text messaging and all that information, so we don't want them taking pictures of other players in that process for confidentiality reasons. 
 But more importantly we want them to pay attention to what's going on. Heaven forbid we have a situation that escalates in a positive, and if that were ever to be the case, we want to make sure that player knew exactly what was going on through the entire process. We ask them to verify that we put the seals on, that we package it up and have them sign off on that. They are not paying attention if they are texting and talking on the phone and becomes very problematic down the road. 
 So we like them to focus on the process without distractions. Obviously there are exceptions and we know life happens outside of the drug testing facility. So if a parent is with us and has an emergency situation with a child or a family member, we will obviously allow them to step outside and make that phone call, and it's really a one-off basis and we will monitor that situation. 
 And one of our staff member will go with that player and we will not listen in on confidential conversations but we will not let the player out of our site either at that time. 

 Q. When the results are analyzed, where do the results go, does the player get a copy or does the result go to the LPGA? 
 CHRIS GUINTY: The results go to the LPGA, and I will let Jill answer that. But just from our point of view, we do not get the results at Drug-Free Sport. We will have the player's number, their sample number and their name so we can match those up but we don't have a result. 
 So Jill will be the only one that has the actual result, the player name, and the player number. The laboratory has the player number but they don't have the name, so they combine all three of those pieces of information are actually done --
 JILL PILGRIM: Chris doesn't know this yet, but we may ask the lab to simultaneously report to both you and us. But there does have to be a matching of all the information so that at the end of the day, if the lab report comes back, obviously the LPGA needs that information in the first instance, because we are holding player prize money until we get the results back. 
 So we have to release the prize money once we get the negative results back, for players, and obviously we want to do that as quickly as possible. So as soon as we get those results back from the lab, we will take care of that. 

 Q. So hypothetically here in the case of a positive, you get that result, or do you get it at the same time as the player? 
 JILL PILGRIM: We will notify. The LPGA will absolutely be the ones to notify the player. We will get the information before the player and we will effectuate the notification of the player. 
 What we don't want is a scenario where a piece of mail goes to someone's house and they are not there. We are more likely to know where they are since they are probably playing at a tournament that we are at and it's probably -- to make the most timely and effective notification, the LPGA would definitely have to do that, because we'll have the better knowledge of where our players are, and that notification goes directly to the player.

 Q. And the player is the first person notified in the case of a positive?
 JILL PILGRIM: As far as we're concerned, the player is the only person notified. It's up to them to decide if there is anybody else they would like to tell about that, but we will only notify the player.

 Q. And in the event of a positive after the player is notified, what is the next step after that? 
 JILL PILGRIM: Well, the next step after that would be that the player would be made aware that they have an opportunity to have their B Sample, the second of those two samples tested and they could have a representative go to the lab or they themselves could go to the lab while that's being tested.
 So while the player -- we've given the player up to 30 days to allow that to happen, and if the B Sample were to test negative, then that would be the end of it. There would be no consequence and that would be it. 
 If the B Sample were to test positive, at that point the LPGA would issue a provisional suspension of the player and they would be in an adjudication mode unless they decided not to challenge the test, in which case we would just go forward and implement the penalty.

 Q. (No microphone).
 JILL PILGRIM: Yes, at the end of the process. So if the player were, for instance, in my example to accept the penalty and say, you caught me, I did it; then there would be a communication that would come out of our communications department indicating that the player tested positive and they were serving a particular penalty. 
 It would take longer if the player challenged the process, and went to arbitration, but then the final announcement would not come from the LPGA until all of the proceedings were exhausted, including any appeals. 

 Q. Were you were unsatisfied -- (indiscernible).
 JILL PILGRIM: So the LPGA made a decision that we were going to move forward differently with our collection agency for the drug testing program and, even though we initially made this decision to work -- we did change that decision recently. 

 Q. Was it after Hawaii and the time it took for testing --
 JILL PILGRIM: There were a number of factors that played themselves out over the process of selecting them and initially working with them, and so interest were a number of factors and we looked at all those factors and assessed our options .







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT