NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 17, 2009
Marc Andre Fleury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You and Cam Ward both kind of flew under the radar in the last two series. Just your thoughts about staying kind of quiet in the last two series. Just hanging out, doing the big save when you need to?  
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Yeah, as long as we win, I don't think it matters if people talk about me or not. That's all that matters is to win some games.   
 We've been through two series, so hopefully, we can go on.  
  
  Q. Is there an edge there between you and Cam? They say he's pretty steady and nobody has to worry about that?  
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Yeah, that was nice.  
  
  Q. Cam has won the MVP. Do you think there's an edge there?   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I think just the experience maybe. Also we were able to get there, and we were fortunate to get to the finals. So I think both of us have the experience to go through it, to get to the finals.   
 To feel the pressure that's all around it, you know. I think he was able to win it, so that was good for him. But hopefully this time it will change up.   
  
  Q. Is there as much fire power on this team as you saw last time, or is it just kind of a different kind of fire power?   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I think they're a little bit different. I think the team has been playing in the system very well. So we'll keep grinding it out now every game, every night. You know, we've just got some shots and rebounds. We just kept going and going, and we were able to get some goals out there.   
  
  Q. Thinking back to where you were two years ago in the Ottawa series, is it almost -- are you a completely different personality than you were? Talking about your evolution, when you think back about that first series for you, is it almost funny how different things work?   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: No, I think it was a good experience, I think, to be able to just finally get in the playoffs, get some playoff action. Now we probably didn't have the thing that we have right now, but we learned from it, you know, and it served us well last year and this year also.   
  
  Q. Your glove save on Alex Ovechkin in Game 7 on the breakaway. Some called it the turning point. That it kind of changed the tides there. Tell us how that felt?   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Very good. It felt just, you know, it was a good player, and I knew if I could make a stop, it could score 0-0, and not get the crowd into it with a goal. So I just planned to stop him, and I was pretty accurate with it.  
  
  Q. Would something like that, like a big save that you did, and really rallies around you, is that kind of your role in this series?   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Yeah, if I can make some key saves at the right time. To just keep the momentum going for our team. Not to fall behind in the game, I think that's my job, and I'll try to do that in the next series.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT