NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 19, 2009
Marc Andre Fleury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. There's a couple injuries right now on Carolina's team in Erik Cole and Ruutu. No one knows whether they're going to be able to play on Thursday. They're big bodies that get in front of you guys. Your thoughts on how different that would be if they didn't have that physical presence?   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: You know, I don't know, it's tough to say. They have two days off before the next game. They have some time to recover, you know.   
 But still, you know, doesn't matter if they play or some other guys play at their spot, I don't think they're going to change the style of play. They're still going to be coming out hard and hitting our guys.   
  
  Q. Is this what you expect from them, they're going to play 60 minutes? Even when they were down 3-1, they were putting pressure on you.   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Yeah, I think it's all playoff long. We expected it. Last night, the way they played, they kept coming at us hard. They played very well.   
  
  Q. The save under your back at the end there.   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: A little bit lucky, I'd say. I think Staal missed the shot, didn't get a good piece of it.   
 I was able to get there.   
  
  Q. You seemed awful relieved last night when we asked you about it. When you looked at them on tape, were they as close in the crease?  
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I didn't see the replay, how close it was. It was close enough, though, I think (laughter).   
  
  Q. Do you get the feeling they're like you, they tend to play well when they're desperate, when the clock is ticking away, down a goal. You were pretty good last year like that against Detroit last year, Washington this year, Philly, too. Do you feel the same way?   
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Yeah, but even like the beginning of the game, the game was 0-0, they're still coming hard. Seems like a team that will play 60 minutes, you know, every night. We got to be ready for that.   
  
  Q. Do you like the extra day in between or would you rather get back out there tomorrow?  
 MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Rather play. I think it's a little bit too much of a wait, you know, before the next game. Just seems a little long. I kind of like to keep playing every day, every night.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT