PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2020
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  JOHN DEVER:   Good evening. Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park in San Francisco.  Pleased to be joined by Abraham Ancer who posted a second round 70.  Abraham is 1-under here at the 36-hole Mark of this championship.
 Abraham I'm going to ask you one question in English.  Hit a little rough patch there on holes 5, 6 and 7 with bogeys but you kind of answered and stepped forward from there, and you have to be pleased with that.
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   Yeah, it was quite the grind.  I was pretty upset, not only with myself not taking advantage of the easier holes, I mean, there's not really any easy holes out here.  You miss the fairway any hole, it becomes really tough.  So yeah, I got pretty upset, and didn't really let go of how I normally do.  I usually tend to bounce back pretty good after a bad hole, and I didn't quite do that today.
 I just calmed myself down.  My caddie helped me out there, too.  Said, it's a tough golf course we just need to kind of level it out and get pars on these two tough holes coming up, and then we can make some birdies, and that's kind of how it went.  It was nice to have a nice, solid back nine.  There were some good putts there that I thought that were going to drop for birdie, but happy the way I battled.  It can go south very quickly here.
 Q. Could you put into perspective how much different the golf course was this afternoon compared to the course that you played yesterday morning and kind of talking about how the course was different and some of the different challenges you faced today compared to the first round?
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   Yeah, we dealt a little more with definitely more wind.  It weren't crazy, but there was some shots there that you have to be so precise.  The wind makes it a lot tougher and the greens were firming up quite a bit.  Also, these greens can get a little bit beat up, maybe some spike marks.   Doesn't roll as true as in the morning.
 But the course is in great shape.  The greens are in good shape.  I think it's definitely a little harder in the afternoon, but it's not a massive, massive difference.
 JOHN DEVER:   Thanks for joining us.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT