THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 14, 2019
Sungjae Im
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If you are could tell me about your match today.
SUNGJAE IM: Captain Ernie Els told all of us before we went out to focus, and to not lose any of the points.
So I think all of us were in the right mind-set and I think that helped me play aggressively, and I think that helped us win the match today.
My partner, Abraham Ancer, made some ridiculous putts, especially on the third hole. There was a huge curving put that he made and he made a clutch putt on the last for us to win. I think we motivated each other a lot and that's what helped us win the match.
Q. Will you play this afternoon?
SUNGJAE IM: I think I might play this afternoon. It's up to Ernie, but I'll be ready either way.
Q. What about that a putt on the last?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Oh, man, that was so much fun. These are the moments that we've been practicing for our whole life, and to be able to do that, it's a lot of fun. But my partner was incredible. I think we both played some really good golf today, I think we are clicking, so hopefully we can keep that going.
Q. Seems you're clicking, three different partners, three different matches, and all wins.
ABRAHAM ANCER: They have been outstanding partners, every single one. They have contributed so much. They all made me feel very comfortable out here, plus their game is absolutely phenomenal. It's been great. I'm going to go out with my boys to finish off the session and get ready for the afternoon.
Q. What do you think about "Aussie Abe," because people are just adopting you here.
ABRAHAM ANCER: I love Australia, man. Sydney and Melbourne, the people have been absolutely phenomenal these past two years that I've been here for a couple of weeks, definitely weeks I'll never forget, no matter the outcome. The people have been phenomenal and the golf courses are incredible, so yeah, I'm really enjoying it.
Q. What did that roar feel like to you?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Adrenaline to the max right there. But like I said before, this is the moments that we practice our whole lives for and to be able to pull it off and finish off a match like that, it's a lot of fun.
Q. How is it different than you expected at the Presidents Cup?
ABRAHAM ANCER: The main difference -- it's living to the expectation. I knew there was going to be a lot of nerves, a lot of intensity and a clot of people. It's been exactly that. I think in this type of golf, it's just very, very special.
Q. You don't quite have the World Ranking of some of the American guys. Do you think they underestimated your abilities?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Maybe. Obviously on paper they are a lot stronger than us, but if we stick to our plan and just play golf at an elite level, we can definitely beat anybody. We just have to stay focused and keep doing what we're doing.
I don't think they underestimated us. I think they were just clicking right now as a team, and we feel like a team and it's been a lot of fun.
Q. Are you ready to go back out for another match?
ABRAHAM ANCER: I'm ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT