THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 14, 2019
Marc Leishman
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Heck of a half-point. The energy between the two of you, what was it like?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Pretty amazing. Even when we were down on the front nine there, our spirits got a little low there for a few holes and the crowd was still getting behind us. We've spoken about it a lot but I think that's what got us through. I mean, walking to that 18th tee there felt like the Tour de France, everyone screaming, it was awesome.   
To fight back from 5-down, pretty amazing feeling.   
 Q.  What changed after you guys were 5-down?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: I just believed. We kept believing. We told ourselves that we were going to keep going at it and we were going to fight until the end. We were not just going to give up. We've just got to find a way to get it done and we did. It's pretty spectacular, the emotions were great, and the people were amazing, so couldn't be more stoked.   
 Q.  To get out of that, to get that half-point, that is huge.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, half-point never felt so good. To be 5-down, the crowd was still behind us and when we were getting our butts kicked. We had the belief, but I think doing it for them, and you know, just the energy we had there, 3-down with three to go. Abe holed a great putt to stay in it on 15, that's how long ago that was.   
It's pretty awesome. It's going to be a big momentum gainer for the Internationals.   
 Q.  Can you feel the energy that's coming your way? Your tag now is Aussie Abe.  
ABRAHAM ANCER: I love it. People here have been absolutely phenomenal with me, and I think with the whole team. It's been a lot of fun. It's a really good grind out there. We were down quite a bit and just to find a way to really get that half-point is huge.   
Leish made some clutch putts down the stretch and he was awesome. He was really awesome. To do it under pressure and in front of the Aussie crowd was unbelievable.   
MARC LEISHMAN: That momentum switch, that's definitely going to help. Looks like we're going to have a lead going into Sunday, so we haven't done that for a long time. Hopefully we can bring this energy tomorrow, play some good golf, get the crowds into it, and be nice to win, what do we need, six more points, it would be nice.   
 Q.  How did you muster the courage in this one?  
MARC LEISHMAN: The crowd were part of it. Me and Abe were talking when we were 5-down, "Let's keep fighting and see what happens." That's a good thing; neither of us say die. It would have been easy to I guess lay down today and take it easy, but we're not like that. We're fighters.   
 Q.  How does this add to the momentum you've built as a rookie here on the International Team in The Presidents Cup?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: It's been unbelievable. I've been lucky to play with Leish and Louis and Im, too, this morning. They have been phenomenal, and it's been a lot of fun. It's been a lot of good golf, also, that we've played. This grind that we had on the back nine was really cool to feel that and to know that we can do that.   
So in case we need to do that again, we know we can do it, and we knew we could do it. It's just a matter of doing it in the moment, and with the pressure, but it's been a lot of fun and it's awesome.   
 Q.  You said earlier in the week you were sick and tired of losing Presidents Cups. To get that half-point, how can that help you individually in singles tomorrow?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It felt like a lot more than a half-point. I've had a good run in the singles in my three Presidents Cups previous but that means nothing now. We've got a lead and it's definitely going to matter tomorrow. I've got to draw on those experiences and draw on the tournaments I've played well in, pull some energy from this crowd, and hope I play well and make some birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT