WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2021
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Just assess your match if you could.
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   Well, it was a good day.  Started hitting the ball really well, and then got a little sloppy there 7 through 10 a little bit, didn't play my best.  I got away with a couple of holes, but other than that I played really solid.  Didn't really make that many dumb mistakes, and hitting the ball well.
 Q. How does this course set up for you, do you think?
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   I like it.  I like it off the tee.  I like the look.  I think it's a very fun golf course, especially for match play.  You can play very aggressive.  You can play a little more conservative.  It's definitely a very entertaining golf course, I think, for us to play and also for the people to watch.
 Q. It almost seems like it doesn't take much, regardless of the hole, to get yourself in a really bad position.
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, the bunkering is tough.  The greens are undulated.  You can be in really tough spots with these pin placements.  There is a couple of really tough ones today, and definitely you can be out of position very quickly out here, and off the tee, as well.
 Q. Is there one hole you felt like was kind of a reminder to you that you were playing well or a sign to you that this was going to be a good day for you?
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   I started playing just really solid.  I felt great off the tee, and if you're in good position off the tee, it kind of makes you relax a little bit more.  So I had a lot of easier, shorter shots into the greens in the first six holes.  I hit a great shot on 6, the par-5.  I hit it a little bit off to the right, laid up and then hit a 6-iron to like three feet that gave me a little bit of confidence --
 Q. 6-iron?
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   Yeah, I was in the trees, I had to chip out to the left, and back into the wind, hit a 6-iron, landed it perfect into that hill, fed right next to the hole, which was nice to see.  Yeah, other than that, I played really well.
 Q. Your first WGC was probably two years ago?
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   Well, my first WGC was Mexico, yeah, three years ago.
 Q. And you're becoming a lot more regular at them now.  I have to ask you, are there people in this field this week that you've never heard of?
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   I think I've heard of pretty much everybody.  Maybe I haven't met everybody, especially some of the European guys.  But pretty much I feel like I know or at least know of pretty much all the field, yeah.
 Q. Did you ever get a sense when you played your first one in Mexico that there were guys in the field who had never heard of you?
 ABRAHAM ANCER:   Probably, yeah, some of the European or Japanese guys.  You've got guys, especially at WGC Mexico, you get some of the Asian guys, Japanese, South African, so there's definitely some guys out there that I didn't know for sure.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT