THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 13, 2019
Marc Leishman
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys meshed well together.  
MARC LEISHMAN: We did, we played a few practice rounds together, and I feel like if I get it on the greens, he's going to make the putt. It's a pretty nice feeling.   
 Q.  What makes you so tough in a format like this in your first ever Presidents Cup?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: I feel like I hit a lot of fairways and just play very simple golf. The putter has been working nicely, so that's been helping a lot and making some good putts that count a lot and keep the momentum going. That's been key this week.   
 Q.  A good turn from yesterday when I spoke to you.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was nice being able to hit that 2-iron off a few tees today. Obviously very disappointed yesterday but that changed pretty quickly when the team was 4-1 up at the end of the day. Nice to get a point for the Internationals. Great having this man by my side all day. He's on fire and hopefully we can keep it that way.   
 Q.  Given your an Aussie Open Champion, you come down to Australia and seem to take ownership of our courses.  
ABRAHAM ANCER: I love it here. Last year was my first time here and I had some great results. The people have been phenomenal to me which I enjoy.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to tomorrow, where do you take it?  
MARC LEISHMAN: We have to take it as a new day. We're going to have foursomes in the morning. We're going to keep doing what we're doing, keep improving. We know the Americans are going to improve. The jet-lag will be wearing off and they will be a hard team to beat still. Yeah, if we can do what we did today and keep making those putts, we'll hopefully have a good chance.   
 Q.  You've both been out on day one, day two. Possibility you'll go two matches again tomorrow?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: I don't know. We've been playing quite a bit together. I played with Louis yesterday, so I don't know what it's going to be. Maybe you guys are going to see more of the same.   
Ernie's got a good plan.   
 Q.  Why do you think you are such a good teammate with Marc Leishman in this format?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: We both played well and kept the ball in play and hit a lot of greens, and whenever we didn't hit greens, we hit it in the right spots to get up-and-down from, so that was key today.   
 Q.  This is your fifth appearance in The Presidents Cup. How would you describe the energy and confidence of this team?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It's definitely a lot better than it has been in years past. Last night was the first night I've ever had a lead in The Presidents Cup out of my Presidents Cups, so that was a good feeling.   
It's fun playing with Abe. We played well today. Definitely looking forward to it. It's a new day tomorrow. We're expecting a good one for sure, and if they have a really good day, they are right back in it. They know that. We know that. We need to keep our foot on the pedal, try and increase our lead. Tomorrow is a big day for us. We need to continue to play well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT