TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2019
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Finished with a bang.  One heck of a Sunday for you.
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, a lot of fun.  Always really nice to finish with 7-under on Sunday, especially on like tricky conditions out here.
Had a lot of fun out there.  Hit the ball good and made some putts.
Q. Walk me through the mental reset.  You blocked that shot out to the right on 18; you turned it into the best possible thing.
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, I was perfect in the center of the green.  I was actually just trying to hit past the pin.  Just have a look at birdie.  Been rolling it really good today.  I got a little bit stuck there and blocked it a little bit to the right.
I stayed really confident.  I felt like I could have got that up and down, and once I got there looked at the lie and it didn't look too bad.  Obviously I was just trying to get up and down, but once I get up over the ball I felt like I could give to a chance and it worked out perfectly obviously.
Q. Might be the low round of the day.  It felt like the golf course really changed from yesterday.  A lot more bounce in the greens.  How did you find your way around the golf course today?  How different for the guys just going out with the leaders?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Definitely.  I think the fairways and greens firmed up quite a bit.  We had to adjust on some of the tee balls there with the clubs we hit.  I think it's only going to get a little bit firmer.  I think it's going to be interesting.  I think it's going to be a mixed bag of scores out there.  I think there is going to be some good ones and also some bad ones.
Q. Probably leaves you in a good spot.  Entering the weeks 60th in FedExCup points.  This has got to be a really good feeling to get a big host of them today.
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, especially even though I'm taking next week off and going to Ireland for three weeks.  Yeah, it was nice to finish this tournament with some points.  We'll see where I end up.
But just leaving with that good feeling, with that good round for a pretty big break.  I've never taken this big of a break playing on the PGA Tour, so definitely it feels nice.
Q. Opened with a low one and closed with an even lower one.  Just general thoughts on the round today and the week in general.
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, extremely happy with how I played.  Obviously Thursday and today were really good rounds.  Tough days there on Friday and Saturday; didn't score that well.  Conditions were pretty tricky too, especially on Friday with all the rain.
Yeah, pretty happy with how I've been playing.  I feel like all year I've been playing solid; I just need to wait for those four rounds to click.
Q. When you a guy like Reavie goes out yesterday and has the crazy round and takes control of the tournament, does that change your mindset going into the finals round, knowing there is a guy up there with a six-stroke lead over everyone else?
ABRAHAM ANCER: I wasn't really thinking -- I mean, I was 13 strokes behind so I wasn't really thinking of winning the tournament.  I knew it was so bunched up that a really low one this morning will move up substantially, so that was my plan.  I knew I was playing good enough to shoot a low one out here.
It's good that it's kind of tricky with the wind, so that makes it tough for a lot of people to play good.  We'll see where I end up.  Yeah, felt like I had a good chance to post a good one this morning.
Q. What clicked for you today?  Obviously you played really well Thursday, and then Friday and Saturday you didn't score as well as I'm sure you wanted.
ABRAHAM ANCER: I just was thinking about Thursday and then watching a little bit of coverage of Reavie yesterday shooting that -- I think he shot 27 or 28 on the back.  I know even if it's playing tough with the wind it's still gettable.
I was just thinking positive.  I felt like I could get it.  I felt like I was playing good.  I just stuck to my plan and it worked out.  I made some putts.
Q. How does a low round today help you going forward?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Helps a lot.  Going to take a break here next week.  I'm taking it off and then going to Ireland and playing the Irish Open, and then eventually the Open over there.
It's going to going to be a pretty good break from the PGA Tour, and I felt like I needed a good finish just to leave with peace of mind that I won't drop off too much on the FedEx.
Definitely gives my confidence, yeah.
Q. Last night your good friend and World Cup partner, countryman, Roberto Diaz in the mix.  Did you guys have a conversation last night or this morning?  Exchange texts?
ABRAHAM ANCER: We been having dinner the last couple nights.  Well we had dinner not last night but the night before and it worked out.  I was like, We got to do it again.  We got to keeping you going the same way you're doing.
No, I don't want to like talk about it too much because then people start thinking.  He hasn't been in that position often on the PGA TOUR, so anything we can do to keep a buddy calm and just do their own thing -- and he's got plenty of game to compete and win, so just needs to let himself do it.
Q. He just started as you finished.  Do you think him seeing your name creeping up the leaderboard will give him some inspiration?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, I hope so.  Hopefully he notices that the course it gettable and just thinks a lot of positive things and starts rolling them in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT