WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 29, 2019
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Overall describe your experience here this week.  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, I thought it was a great experience.  Really nice to play match play, since we really didn't get to play it all year.  It's been a while since I played it.  The golf course is great for match play.  Had a great time.   
Wish I could have taken care of business on the first match but I played great after that.  I played really solid in my next two matches.  So I feel great about my game.   
 Q.  Paul obviously had the biggest leg up in going to advance, but you still played really well today and built quite a lead.  Can you talk about your play today against Charles.  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, just going into the match, Charles is a very solid player.  He really doesn't make any mistakes.  He's been doing this for a while and has done really well.  Hell of a guy.  I enjoyed playing with him and against him.   
And, yeah, I played really solid since hole 1.  I started with three birdies in a row, or four birdies in a row, I think.  And, yeah, it was really solid.  I didn't make any mistakes.  He made a run at the end and made a couple of birdies coming in.  But I managed to hit the right shots at the right time.  And, yeah, I can't say how happy I am with my game.  I'm extremely comfortable playing out here in these type of events, and can't wait for next week.   
 Q.  I'm going to transition some questions about Roberto.  How would you describe your friendship with Roberto Diaz?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Oh, really good buddies.  I met him right when I turned pro.  And ever since then we've been on the same tours.  We traveled a lot together on the Web.com Tour.  Yeah, he's now moved to San Antonio.  We haven't been able to kind of play the same event.  We were playing kind of different schedules, but it's always a fun time playing with him and just having a good time.   
 Q.  He embraces us but he said you make fun of his stutter sometimes?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, we always find stuff to make fun of between each other.  Yeah, it's weird in English he doesn't really stutter that much.  But in Spanish, which is our first language, that's when he gets it a little more.  It's pretty funny.  On the World Cup whenever we had to do interviews as a team, like in front of each other it was brutal, because he knew it was coming and I knew it was coming, and we couldn't stop laughing.   
 Q.  As a friend of his what does it mean for you to see him embrace that, overcome it and be someone that people who do stutter inspire to be like?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, I'm not trying to like bully him or anything, we're really good friends.  I know he can take it.  And sometimes it can be frustrating.  It's obviously something that he wants to not do and it just kind of comes out.  Yeah, I think people have -- I mean that issue, they shouldn't be either shy about it or anything, just laugh about it.  It's really the right approach, I think, to go at it for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT