SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2018
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Abraham, you got off to a flier this morning.  Sort of dropped the anchor, but that's a good day's work.  Your thoughts?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, I played really solid except for one blemish.  Other than that, I hit the ball not that great off the tee, but I hit some good iron shots and I putted really well and scrambled really good, too.   
 Q.  A continuation after a tough afternoon yesterday, right?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, got pretty windy out there.  Hung in there and played really good.  Like i said, I putted really good, too.  Just try to do the same thing tomorrow.   
 Q.  You mention the good playing.  You come off your first foray into the FedExCup playoffs.  Do you feel like that carries some confidence into the new season?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah.  I think I played really solid the whole past season.  Try to get better obviously and then just try to carry on and do what I've been doing this past year.   
 Q.  You've got the afternoon off now.  What does Abraham Ancer do in Las Vegas?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Man, there is a lot of stuff to do here.  Probably going to go to a couple shows and have a good dinner.  That's about it.   
 Q.  You've been trending in a really good direction all last season.  Like you mentioned, a few really good chances you had that I am sure you learnt plenty from.  What is it you're going to take from those experiences into the weekend?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, I have really nothing to lose.  If you really start thinking too much of win or whatever, just more added pressure you don't really need.   
Just take it one shot at a time.  I felt like I maybe put a little bit too much pressure in the chances when I had last season, and I am just going to try to do the same thing I did today and yesterday.   
 Q.  Breaking that down, is that like breathing in those moments?  Something you to consciously try to...  
ABRAHAM ANCER: You know what?  It can combination of things, also some decisions.  I haven't gotten to a solid start in like the final round.  Hitting the ball good but just making some maybe lines and second shots to the pin and stuff like that.  And sometimes you have to get lucky, too.   
Getting off to a good solid start on that Sunday I think it's really important to get it done.  I'm just going to try to do that.  But I got to put myself in that position first.   
 Q.  Experience is the best learning, right?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Correct, yeah.  I mean, I think if I put myself in that position the most times I can, I'm probably going to do better every time.   
 Q.  You talk about experience and going through it every time.  Watching guys win on the tour, have you picked up anything that really leads to that breakthrough, or is everyone different in terms of being consistent week to week?  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, I think everybody is different.  Some guys like to really zone in and some guys try to get it as light as possible.  Just whatever works.  You got to find whatever works for you.   
I think I found what works for me.  First three days I just got to keep putting myself in the position to figure out how to really hone in my type of game on Sunday.  I mean, I played good on Sundays quite a bit of times, but not in that final group, you know?   
The two times I been I feel like I actually hit the ball well.  It was just either putting was a little bit off, my speed, or whenever I had the speed the line wasn't right.  Just little things.   
Keep putting myself in that position and should be all good.   
 Q.  Sometimes the guy with you could be good, too.  There is always that chance, that the other person plays really well.  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah.  That day I don't think anybody in the world really could have beaten him.  It was very impressive to watch.  I just like I said, when I was on 14 I was just like, Man, I'm just enjoying what I'm seeing now.   
 Q.  Can't catch him at that point.  
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah, I've learned from him and other guys I played with obviously.  Like I said, everybody is different.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT