AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 17, 2018
Abraham Ancer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under par.  What was the key for you today?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Thank you.  I hit it great off the tee and hit 14 fairways, which is great out here coming into the greens, which are quite firm in some spots and very slopey.  You got to be hitting out of the fairway for sure.
Q. New venue for everybody, veterans as well as guys making their way to the PGA TOUR.  How much of a benefit is that to you knowing that no one has an advantage over you?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Obviously that's a good thing because you got guys that have played the same golf courses for awhile and they feel really comfortable but I try just to look at every course like the same and, I really enjoy this golf course.  I think it's a fun golf course.
You got to be really creative on your shots and chipping and putting, got to bank it sometimes off the fringe and slopes.  It's cool.
Q. How was the condition of the golf course today?
ABRAHAM ANCER: It was phenomenal.  The wind didn't really blow as much as -- I don't think it's going to blow today at all but tomorrow it's probably going to start blowing and see the true test of what this golf course is capable of.
Q. Just some thoughts on your round today.  Obviously a pretty good one.
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah.  I had a lot of fun today out there.  It's great golf course.  I hit it really good off the tee, hit all 14 fairways, which is key out here, you want to be in the fairway coming into these greens and I did that and I felt really good about it.
Q. Is there an importance on being which side of the fairways necessarily?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah.  Some of the fairways are pretty wide but there's some bunkering you got to be -- kind of take maybe an angle to the green, you got to look at for sure.  I did that really well today, which is good.
Q. Some of the guys talked about how you have to think your way through this course.  Is there one or two shots that you had to really get right in your mind?
ABRAHAM ANCER: Yeah.  I think every shot out here if you're coming to the green you got to see exactly where you want to hit.  Severe slopes out there and you hit it close to the hole, might look like a great shot and you end up off the green or 40 feet by.  You got to definitely think every single shot you're coming into the green here.
Q. Did you have one shot in particular that you were surprised about?
ABRAHAM ANCER: On 17, yeah, 17, I was hitting an 8-iron and there's a severe slope that if you land all the way down there where the pin is at you probably go over.
I had to land it short.  I hit it good where I was looking.  I was expecting a little bit of help with the wind and switched a little bit and landed short of the slope and stayed back.  I had a pretty tough putt.  I three-putted for bogey.  You got to take it.  That stuff is going to happen.
Q. Have you played anywhere else that kind of reminds you of this place?  Does anything come to mind?
ABRAHAM ANCER: I haven't really played in Europe, I only played in Spain, but haven't played a links course so I haven't really played many golf courses that resemble this golf course.
But, like I said, I really enjoy it so hopefully I can go play The Open one day.
Q. When you guys play a course nobody is familiar with, is that kind of an equalizer in terms of the leaderboard?
ABRAHAM ANCER: It helps.  There's guys out here that have played the same schedule and same tournaments for a long time and just feel really comfortable out there and I think that plays a good bit.
I feel like if I play a golf course ten years I'm going to feel pretty good about it unless my game is really bad at that time of the year.  But I think it's a cool thing to play a new event and new venue.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT