CITI BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: TEXAS v ALABAMA
January 5, 2010
Cory Reamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Inaudible.)
 CORY REAMER: Yeah, I'm sure it does. There's a lot of stuff that we run. It's hard to learn when you're first getting here. It's a lot of stuff. It's a very complex defense, so I'm sure it's very hard to prepare for, as well.

 Q. Outside of football, what's been the most fun thing this week?
 CORY REAMER: I think Disneyland was a lot of fun. I haven't been there since about 1993.

 Q. Did you ride any roller coasters?
 CORY REAMER: Of course, I rode every ride I could. I rode a few of the rides twice. We had a Fast Pass, so it was nice to skip the lines.

 Q. I heard some of the guys couldn't get on the rides because they were a little bit too big. 
 CORY REAMER: Yeah, one of the guys that was with us tried to get on one of the rides and his knees wouldn't fit under the bar so they wouldn't let him ride. It was pretty sad, but it was pretty funny at the same time.

 Q. What gift will you choose? 
 CORY REAMER: I saw the list that there's a recliner, so I'm really looking forward to that one so I can watch TV all spring semester.

 Q. Do you think Coach Saban is having fun out here?
 CORY REAMER: I think he's enjoying his work. I think he's enjoying the process and the fact that we're here playing for this big of a game, and he's enjoying preparing and getting the team ready for it, and I'm sure he'll have a lot of fun afterwards when we win. 

 Q. Talk about their running attack. 
 CORY REAMER: It's kind of unique as much spread as they do. Most teams spread five wide all the time, but they mix in a pretty good amount of running and it's pretty unique and it's going to be difficult for us to defend and fill the holes as linebackers.

 Q. How would you describe the pace of their offense?
 CORY REAMER: We've been talking about it ever since they won. It's definitely up tempo, and whenever they make big plays, they're quick on the ball to try to get another one in on you, try to catch you off your guard, try to catch you guessing what you did wrong, how you messed up. You're really worried about the play before instead of focusing on the next play. That's really where they take advantage of you with their quick pace.

 Q. In your practice sessions what are you guys doing to try to prepare for that?
 CORY REAMER: Our scout team offense has done a really good job of giving us a good look. Whenever they do that, they kind of have a little system set up. It's been really good for us to have a scout team be able to do that and give us a look as close to or similar as to what Texas is going to give us during the game. Most teams probably can't give us that sort of a look.

 Q. What does the Miracle on Ice represent to this team?
 CORY REAMER: Coach Saban always talks about that movie and that team, being a team that realizes what they can accomplish if they put their minds to it. Everybody is on the same page and everybody is focusing on the same goal. You go out there and pretty much defeat anybody. You can win the big games, you can be that guy -- when people said that they could never do it, you come out and do it. He's been talking about that movie and that team a lot this week to try to emphasize, make sure that we're staying on our focus, staying focused on this goal of what we need to do and not straying too far away from it with all the distractions that we have around us.

 Q. How would you describe him as a motivator?
 CORY REAMER: He's pretty neat. Sometimes when he pulls stuff out and talks about it, you wonder how he thought about it. 

 Q. Like what?
 CORY REAMER: The Miracle on Ice is one example.

 Q. Does another come to mind?
 CORY REAMER: I'd have to think about that. There's been so many.

 Q. How about Sugar Ray and what he told you guys prior to Florida; do you remember that at all?
 CORY REAMER: To be honest with you, no; there's so many that goes on, at some point they all run together. When he kind of goes on those, it's good for some people. I'm kind of worrying about what I'm going to be doing during this game and my job and stuff like that. When you do listen there's always a good message. He's got a good reason behind it, and I think he does a great job. I think the really motivating thing he does is he demands so much out of his team that the guys really want to perform for each other. He really brings that out in this team, and that's really what he does best. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT