NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: HURRICANES v RED WINGS
June 4, 2002
Scotty Bowman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Scotty, with the way your team played was the result a justified result?
 
COACH BOWMAN: You mean the loss or  -- 
 
Q.  Yeah.
 
COACH BOWMAN: You can analyze it anyway you want, we had a chance to win it on the powerplay.  That's just like being in sudden death overtime, a minute-what, whatever it was, a minute 42 in the powerplay, that was  -- I think we didn't play as well as we wanted to.  That's for sure.  Seemed the first part of the game the passing was really  -- we had a lot of turnovers mostly because of our passing, that's a strange thing, but sometimes it gets  -- it was off kilter definitely the first half.   
 
Q.  Is this the kind of game where when you look back at this game you are going to look at the chances you had and sort of the missed opportunities not just the powerplay at the end but all through the third period?
 
COACH BOWMAN: We didn't have a lot of chances.  We had, I think at the end of the second we had it probably around 10, 12 and half of them were on the powerplay so we didn't have a lot of chances   - scoring chances even strength, we may have had maybe three or four in the third, but you know, we didn't expect a lot of chances, that's for sure.  Going to be a tight game.  I thought we were a little  -- the first goal, the two-man disadvantage not much you can do on that really.  You are at the hands of what the guys are going  -- they are going to get some shots.  And the second goal they had a lot of pressure and we had  -- we had real tired defenseman on the ice and they chose to come off and we couldn't get the defensemen back on.  We chased the puck.  We actually -- sort of same kind of goal as Colorado scored in overtime in one of the other games, but long change in the second period.  You got to be real careful when you get off.  We got burned on it.   
 
Q.  What did you think of Carolina's performance tonight, anything surprise you from what they did?
 
COACH BOWMAN: No, I mean when I watched the tapes of their games, you know, they  -- we knew they had a good powerplay.  There was a lot of powerplays in the game.  There was a lot of both sides you know, it was -- I think ended up two minutes, both teams.  But they  -- pretty well true to form the way that we saw them play, I mean what we watched. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT