NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: AVALANCHE v RED WINGS
May 27, 2002
Scotty Bowman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Scotty, was that play offsides?
 
COACH BOWMAN: Yeah. 
 
Q.  Make you angry?
 
COACH BOWMAN: Can't do anything about it.  Murphy wasn't on the line.  You can't blame him.  It was a kick play, and he was about three feet.  What are you going to do? 
 
Q.  Coach, talk about Forsberg in general today, how he always seems to create space, no matter who's trying to check him or what have you.
 
COACH BOWMAN: Are you making a statement or asking questions? 
 
Q.  I'm asking, how do you think Forsberg played today?
 
COACH BOWMAN: Good, very good. 
 
Q.  Scotty, were you saying Murphy was three feet  --
 
COACH BOWMAN: It was a quick play.  He was on the line.  It's hard to call, you know, it's a tough call.  I'm not going to cry over a call like that.  You know, you can't cry about it.  That's the breaks in the game, and that's it. 
 
Q.  Scotty, how tough is it to go into Colorado now after losing two in a row?
 
COACH BOWMAN: Well, we have a good road record in the season plus the playoffs.  That's what you got to take with you.  And the five games now, three went into overtime.  So figure that out.  You know, it's been just about dead even, but they got the goal to the fifth game.  So far that's the defense in the series. 
 
Q.  Scotty, do you feel like you're getting enough scoring chances, any change in strategy you would contemplate?
 
COACH BOWMAN: I thought our power play was better.  We had some near misses, we had an opportunity in the third period when they had the penalty.  And, you know, we had a couple of shots, tough break on a stick or two, but we had good positioning.  We changed it around enough to be effective. 
 
Q.  Scotty, you're starting to get some scoring chances from Brendan Shanahan.  Are you happy with the improvement in his play?
 
COACH BOWMAN: Well, happy, I mean, we're never happy when we lose.  I don't go for individuals as much.  I don't comment on individual players, because it's a team game, and, you know, nobody wins a game or nobody loses a game, as far as I'm concerned as a player, individual. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT