PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEN'S MEDIA DAY
November 1, 2012
Solomon Hill
Sean Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   We'll go ahead and get started with Arizona.   We'll start with an opening statement from Coach. 
    COACH MILLER:   Well, I think all of us at Arizona are very excited about our season.   I think we're also‑‑ me as the coach, very excited about our conference.   This is my fourth year in the Pac‑12.   I think it will be the most talented and deepest conference that I've been a coach in. 
    And in terms of our team, one of the exciting things is that I believe we combined two important elements, one an influx of new talent and in particular front court players that we didn't really have a year ago, and yet I think another group, led by Solomon here, of hungry veterans that have seen the Final Four, with us being in the Elite Eight against UConn as close as we were to advancing and being a part of the last Pac‑10 Championship team, and a year ago where we pulled up short and, although we won 23 games, it certainly didn't meet our expectations. 
    So I think Solomon returns as a senior and an All‑Pac‑12 player with a couple guys that have been on that same ride as him, and I think when you combine experience and hunger and some talented new players, I think that's, to me, what's the most exciting about moving forward with this year's team at Arizona. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Take questions. 

Q.   Two part question.   First for you, Coach, with all the talented young guys, how much of a comfort is it to have a guy like Solomon on your team?   And then, Solomon, what have you tried to instill in these young teammates from a leadership standpoint? 
    COACH MILLER:   I'll go first.   The first is that to me college basketball sometimes is misrepresented, where it's always about who wasn't here a year ago, the new players.   And certainly that's important and on this year's team at Arizona that's important. 
    But the players that have gone through hundreds of practices, that have been in big games, that have played in championship type of atmospheres, they're the ones that are the are the most meaningful because they can show the new guys the way, that they lead by example, whether they want to or not.   And in the moments that mean the most, that's who you rely on. 
    And I don't know if anybody in this conference, maybe even in college basketball, deserves to have a great senior year more than Solomon.   He's paid the price.   If you've followed his career, he was a huge part of our first team that we recruited.   We weren't a very good team.   He then was a starter on a team that went to the Elite Eight.   A year ago he developed into an All‑Conference player and one of our team's leaders.   And there's no question in my mind that he can move beyond that this year as a senior. 
    If you look at him physically, he's worked extremely hard.   His shot's gotten better.   Really all facets of his game.   And really both on and off the court he's done an exceptional job.   And to me he's the leader by example on a daily basis with our program. 
    SOLOMON HILL:   I would say teaching the young guys about sacrifice has been the biggest part of my leadership.   The guys are changing from high school to college, and the social life is there, the partying is there, the after‑hours spots are there.   And I just tell the guys that putting your talents to hard work, being in the gym a little bit longer, trying to get there early, those parties will always be there, your friend will always be there for you to go out, but it's about where are you at two o'clock in the morning.
    Coach has said and showed us numerous of occasions where guys get in trouble after twelve o'clock and put their season in jeopardy. 
    Just getting guys to understand that you're part of something bigger than just yourself.   You represent your family, you represent the college, and you represent your team. 
    Anytime you're out there, especially with everything, all the social media that's going on and the phones, you take a quick picture past one o'clock with some alcohol in your hand, you're misrepresented.   Get the guys to understand that.   Just putting in the work now, you can benefit from it later.   Just sacrifice. 

Q.   Solomon's versatility has seen him play both power forward, small forward.   Can you talk about this year's lineup and how he'll fit in being able to go back and forth between the two positions?
    COACH MILLER:   We played last night, and I think if you watched us or followed the game, Solomon this year's going to play on the wing, true small forward.   I would like to think.   Unless there's dire straits, someone gets hurt, foul trouble, or maybe a special situation late in the game that he'll always be on the court with two front court players. 
    He has prepared himself tremendously to be successful with that.   And that if you look at him physically, he's in the best shape of his life.   And from a perimeter perspective, the ability to make 3s and shoot the basketball, he's at a much different level now than ever before. 
    And, again, it goes to what he talked about, sacrifice and putting in the time and the work.   And when you have an older player within your program who is in a key role, who exemplifies that on a daily basis, that can set the tone for what I think's the most important part of this time of year‑‑ and that is our process:   Are we working hard every day, are we continuing to learn what we need to get better at, and are we paying the price collectively as a group. 
    And so far so good with our team.   Again, there's some exciting elements to what we have going on, but it's that hunger of upperclassmen led by Solomon and I think a group of talented young players that are in the right place that could make our team really special.   It's no question Solomon leads that charge. 

Q.   Solomon what's your relationship with Mark Lyons like? 
    SOLOMON HILL:   It's great.   I love that guy.   We compete at a high level.   You can tell that he's been through wars.   He's been through stages with the Xavier team, teams that's been to the tournament numerous times, and he's hungry.   Just as hungry as I am to get back to the NCAA Tournament. 
    And it shows in practice.   We always get in arguments.   It's just because we want each other to push each other.   Last night we had a great bonding moment.   We came together, brought the team together.   We made our runs, and the team made their runs. 
    But I think we kept the guys composed.   And I love his energy on the court.   He's a whole different basketball player when he's on the court.   He makes plays, he makes things happen for you. 
    It's great to feel confident in our point guard, knowing that he's going to be there day in and day out.   And just having his back and he having mine, I feel good out there on the court with having him a part of the team. 

Q.   Which place, not including McKale, is the toughest in the conference to win? 
    COACH MILLER:   I'm going to answer.   First of all, there's quite a few.   But Washington to me is the place that we respect the most.   We're 0‑3 there during our time, the two of us, Solomon and I.   And we have had some really great battles with Washington, whether it's been in the Pac‑12 Tournament here in McKale or there. 
    But I think that their fan base, the energy that's in their arena, their program, their coach, to me they represent what's all good in college basketball when you walk into an arena.   It's hostile and in a very good way.   And hopefully by me saying that, they will welcome me with open arms this year and maybe we can beat them by one point. 

Q.   I know you're familiar with Mark Lyons, but what are the challenges with bringing in a transfer point guard who is not‑‑ who is a senior into a new team? 
    COACH MILLER:   Well, the challenges really lie with him.   It all comes down to what his purpose is.   And I think, like Solomon said, as I've talked about our team at Arizona this year, combining hungry veteran leadership with talented newcomers, Mark Lyons is part of that hungry leadership. 
    Think about this:   He's been on three different teams that have been in the NCAA Tournament Sweet 16.   There aren't many players that have a year left of eligibility that you can say that about.   He wants to win.   I think he knows that we have a team that can do that.   And he's learning, no question, a new system, but I don't think he looks at the system and rolls his eyes.   I think he leans on someone like Solomon or me to teach him. 
    And what I found is he's hungry to become better at playing the point.   He wants to do the things that we ask him to do.   And it's refreshing to have him around. 
    Solomon and Mark Lyons are two of the most competitive kids that I've been around.   They compete every day in practice, Solomon talked about them going head to head in practice, which every coach loves to see, because you have two older players really competing on a daily basis. 
    And I really believe that as we enter the big games on our schedule, and as our season develops, we're going to rely a lot on those two guys as personality to bring out the best in our team. 

Q.   You talked about just the league being stronger.   Just curious how you thought the top might play out.   What are the teams you like up there? 
    COACH MILLER:   I think we have great balance, and it's so important in this room, all of us, that we win the most games we can in November and December.   I can remember a long time ago when I played, I would always cheer against the teams in our conference because I didn't want them to do as well as us.   And those days have ended a long time ago. 
    This year in particular every time that a Pac‑12 team plays a non‑conference opponent, we want them to win.   The most success that we can have as a conference only helps each other.   And now's the best time to do it with our added exposure that Larry Scott and this conference has brought to us. 
    I think timing is really impeccable and I don't think there's ever been a better time to be Solomon, a player in our conference, myself, a coach, or a fan. 
    But from top to bottom I think that I don't really want to talk about one team because I think there's five or six different teams that can do a great job.   We have a great example a year ago with Colorado that was under the radar, but at the end of the day in March, they were one of the best teams in our conference, represented us in the NCAA Tournament and won a game in the NCAA Tournament.   And so much of it is this year I think we have a number of teams that can follow that. 
    THE MODERATOR:   All right.   That will do it, gentlemen.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT