GILDAN NEW MEXICO BOWL: MARSHALL VS COLORADO STATE
December 16, 2017
Doc Holliday
Tyre Brady
Channing Hames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Marshall - 31, Colorado State - 28   
THE MODERATOR: We have head Coach Doc Holliday, our offensive MVP Tyre Brady, and our defensive MVP, Channing Hames.   
Questions.   
 Q.  Tyre, big game for you tonight.  Was there anything in particular that you felt was really working for you out there?  
TYRE BRADY: Just going out, laying it all on the line for the seniors.  Every time when you play for yourself, you force things, you press things.  But when you play for your teammates, things just fall into place the right way.   
 Q.  Coach, you were going against perhaps one of the better offensive lines you've played against, one of the most experienced.  94 played the best game of his career.  Talk about his effort.  
DOC HOLLIDAY: I think it's the entire defense played tremendous.  That's an excellent offensive football team.  That receiver, No. 4, he's amazing.  Guys played hard, played tremendous.  Got some pressure on the quarterback.   
He's going to be a good young player, a good guy.  Just a baby starting to grow up.  I thought he played really hard today.   
 Q.  Channing, you found out Tyler wasn't going to be here for this game.  What mental process did you go through getting prepared to play?  
CHANNING HAMES: Nothing was going to change.  Just the same game plan.  You know, want to stick with the guys we have now, go to war with them.  Just play hard for the seniors tonight, lay it out all on the line.   
 Q.  Doc, you knew what their passing game could do.  Did you know you had to hone in, go feast or famine with the blitz packages?  
DOC HOLLIDAY: We felt that quarterback is so talented, their skill guys are so talented, if you gave him time to sit back there and throw the ball, feel comfortable in the pocket, you were going to have a hard time matching up against that team.   
We were hoping we could get some pressure.  We did.  Gave up a couple big plays because of it.  But at the end of the day we won the game because we were able to get some pressure and get in his face.   
 Q.  Having played in a few games, when did you know you were going to play?  How good did it feel in the first half?  
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: It was great to be out there.  I missed, like, the last three games.  I knew I was going to play this week.  Yeah, it was great to go out there and play for the seniors.   
DOC HOLLIDAY: Let me tell you something about this guy right here.  Last night at midnight, we didn't think he was going to play today.  He was so sick, couldn't get out of bed.  He spent all night with the doctors trying to get him squared away.  What a great effort.  He went out there today and played tremendous.  That's a tribute to him, the kind of kid he is, the kind of competitor he is.  A lot of people wouldn't have showed up and played today.   
 Q.  Tyre, you scored against single coverage, which we expect you to do.  Looked like that team didn't even study the NC State game.  How surprised were you?  
TYRE BRADY: I was surprised when they ran that.  That's what my job is, be single on coverage, be the man across from you.  That's what football is all about.   
 Q.  Coach, how were you able to be so explosive?  You had three different drives that lasted less than 46 seconds.  
DOC HOLLIDAY: Execution, preparation.  We got two tremendous backs.  Got the freshman back, Tyler King.  Keion Davis is an explosive player.  That offensive line, we're playing with three freshmen and a sophomore.  Starting to grow up a little bit.  Extra bowl practices helped us.   
Just execution and preparation.  Our coaches did a tremendous job of getting these guys ready to play.  These guys just went out and did their job.   
 Q.  Coach, for the defensive front, they've been able to get pressure on teams all year.  I know there was a lot of talk coming in about Colorado State's offense.  Do you feel like that group really gelled together throughout the year and led you on?  
DOC HOLLIDAY: They're a bunch of young guys starting to grow up.  This guy right here is a young guy starting to play.  Ryan Bee moved inside, helped us a little bit athletically.   
We've had good football teams since I've been here eight years, our seniors have stepped up and played their best football.  You saw a guy named Durant the last play of the game found a way to win that game for us.   
Seniors, don't have many of them, the ones that have played.  Chocolate made a big play on special teams.  They played their best football, which enabled us to be where we are right now.   
 Q.  Tyre, does having a guy like Michael Gallup across from you, hear the talk about him, give you an extra edge to come out here and give it your best shot?  
TYRE BRADY: I mean, I wouldn't say 'extra edge'.  I'm not going to change what I do, how I approach the game.  I'm going to stay consistent in what I do every time I approach the field.   
But he's a great player.  We knew that.  We knew that.   
 Q.  Is that the most you've blitzed in quite some time?  
DOC HOLLIDAY: I would think.  It was the same blitz.  Yeah, there's no doubt that we felt like we had to get pressure, as I mentioned before.  He kept dialing it up.  Fortunately our guys were able to make some plays.   
 Q.  You knew coming in you were going to have to balance out the offense.  The games you had struggled in, the rushing attack hadn't been there.  For Keion and Tyler to get going early, how crucial was that?  
DOC HOLLIDAY: Yeah, you got to be able to at some point run the football.  They were able to do that.  A lot of big plays running the ball.  You can't become one-dimensional against a good football team and win the game.   
I thought for the most part we were able to run it and throw it, which was what was going to have to happen for us to win that game.   
 Q.  All the talk about coming to a different region, winning a game...  
DOC HOLLIDAY: We don't worry about what we can't control.  I heard all this about altitude, distance.  We don't pay a lot of attention to it.  At the end of the day, it's all about preparation.   
Let me say this.  This is a tremendous bowl.  You guys have done an excellent job.  This is my 26th bowl.  Y'all have done as good a job as any bowl I've ever been to as far as the hospitality.  Our kids appreciate everything the bowl has done for us.  It's been a great three days.   
As I mentioned before, the bowls you remember are the ones you win.  We're going to remember this one because we found a way to get it done.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT