NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 25, 2004
Dave Andreychuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Even though you guys were already down in the game, how much of a back-breaker was Iginla's goal? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  I thought we started to get some pressure at that point in the game.  They get a bounce on the first goal, but he makes a pretty good play.  Nikolai makes a very good save and he rebounds by making a pretty good play.  It's a goal that you know, you give up a chance and it ends up in the back of your net.  It's tough to bounce back from. 
 Q.  What is the key to wining Game 2? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  I think we got to come out with some energy.  Obviously this team, they have done this before.  Did it last series.  So they are looking for  -- they are not looking for a split.  They are looking to win both these games and go back to Calgary up 2-0.  We have to be aware of that.  We have to know that we need a lot better start.  Our desperation level has to get back to where it was in our last series.  I thought as the game went on, we started to play a little bit better, started to get some more chances, but we have to be ready for their speed at the beginning of the game. 
 Q.  Coach was switching up the lines quite a bit.  Your third man was different just about every shift.  Did that affect how you guys played on the ice? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  No, he's been doing that for the last few games now.  Throughout the whole year we have played with different guys.  I think it's good.  I think it gives us another look, but we're trying to find a spark, just like he is. 
 Q.  Could you talk about Kiprusoff a little bit, how good Kiprusoff is.  Anything he surprised you with you tonight? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  Watching the rest of the Playoffs, we know when he sees it, he's a good first-shot goalie.  There were some rebounds that were out there but I thought their defense played very well.  They didn't give us a lot of second and third chances.  That's the kind of desperation level we have got to get to those chances.  He moved very well.  He made some good cross-ice saves, so we're going to have to continue to not get frustrated with him, just keep throwing pucks on the net trying to get chances. 
 Q.  On what looked like a tough sheet of ice, did you guys maybe overpass or try more difficult passes early in the game and shot more later  -- 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  Early in the game I thought that our game plan was to get by their defense and try to work them down low.  I thought we did that as the game went on.  Our ice has been like this all year long.  We are rated number three in the League, so take it for what it's worth, but both teams have been playing on the same ice. 
 Q.  Marty was talking about Florida fans yesterday and said that often on the power play they won't even say "shoot," they will let you do your thing.  Tonight a couple of them were booing.  Did their restlessness get to you? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  No, when you are down, you are looking for a goal on the power play.  You are trying to make some plays that are probably not there.  Our fans have been great all year long.  I don't think  -- I know I don't hear them, but our power play definitely has got to get it back to where it was in our last series.  We kept it simple, won some battles, got the pucks through, we have to continue to do that and try to get back to that. 
 Q.  Is it too early to call Game 2 a must-win? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  No.  This is a must-win for us.  We do not want to go down 0-2.  It's not the end of the world, but we probably could see it. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT