NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Ben McLemore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Start with an opening statement, feelings about getting drafted. 
BEN McLEMORE:   Right now I'm feeling great.   This is a great opportunity for me.   I'm blessed to be here to get drafted, and I'm happy.   I'm very excited and my family is excited.   Just the start of my journey. 

Q.   Ben, congratulations to you.   There have been a lot of negative reports in this process about you.   Talk about how are you coming in with a chip on your shoulder, ready to prove everyone wrong on negative things that have been said during this process? 
BEN McLEMORE:   I definitely can say I come in with a chip on my shoulder.   That's what I want to do.   I want to come in and show everybody what I can do, because I know on the court I know what I can do.   I can be an alpha dog and take over games and help my teams win games. 
Like I said, I definitely think coming in I definitely got a chip on my shoulder, but I know I can handle it right.   I know I'm going to go in there and work. 

Q.   The Kings are officially now in Sacramento.   They're not moving. 
BEN McLEMORE:   Yeah. 

Q.   So talk about how that excitement is going to fuel the excitement from the fans that their team is still there. 
BEN McLEMORE:   It's going to be very exciting.   I can't wait to go to the city, meet everybody in the organization, my teammates, and be ready to meet the fans.   I'm very excited. 

Q.   During the draft LeBron Tweeted that the teams were sleeping on Ben McLemore, since you weren't taken first overall or up there.   How does that make you feel? 
BEN McLEMORE:   You know, I'm just blessed.   I'm just glad that I have the opportunity and the opportunity to be picked by Sacramento. 
And somebody told me, my little brother, told me about the Tweet.   I just stay focused on what was in front of me.   I'm definitely excited tonight. 

Q.   Ben, two things:   How well do you know LeBron? 
BEN McLEMORE:   I know him pretty well.   Going to his camps, my junior year, and then just meeting him and stuff like that.   He's a great guy.   I looked up to him a lot. 

Q.   Also, you talked about the chip.   In Kansas they know you as a nice guy.   Sitting at the table, how much did dropping to 7, I know that's not low, but how much did dropping like that contribute to this chip?   Were you feeling it right there tonight? 
BEN McLEMORE:   Definitely.   I think I've been feeling it since I've been here.   Since I've been in workouts.   I'm just ready, prepared to show everybody what I can do, and everybody saw me play this past season.   They've seen I've show spurts.   And I'm ready to head to the next level and do what I got to do. 

Q.   Ben, first of all, congratulations. 
BEN McLEMORE:   Thank you. 

Q.   You're the first pick of this new organization in Sacramento.   They've put all of their chips into you early on.   How does that feel?   And DeMarcus Cousins, obviously a dominant big man in the NBA, how do you feel about that? 
BEN McLEMORE:   I feel great.   Ready, prepared and I feel I can come in and and impact a lot and help a lot for the Sacramento Kings. 

Q.   That's the best suit I've seen all night. 
BEN McLEMORE:   Thank you. 

Q.   Bow tie.   I can never make one of those. 
BEN McLEMORE:   I practiced it.   I definitely did it tonight.   I've been practicing it.   It's a nice tie. 

Q.   You've got a great personality.   This would have been a great endorsement situation.   Sacramento is not known for being a big endorsement market.   Is that frustrating for you and your business people?   If you were in a bigger market I can see where you can do really well. 
BEN McLEMORE:   Not at all.   Me and my peoples are going to do what's best for us and best for me as far as marketing.     We're going to find a way to market me. 
Like you said, I'm definitely a marketable person.   In the end of the day I'm trying to enjoy this moment.   I'm happy and excited.   I can't wait to go out and celebrate with my family. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Ben. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT