NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Kelly Olynyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Where were you when you found out that you were being selected for this competition?  
KELLY OLYNYK:   I was at shoot‑around.   I don't remember what game it was.   But it was right before shoot‑around or after shoot‑around at the Garden, actually.   
   
 Q.   Your impressions on that?   How was it?   Were you excited?  
KELLY OLYNYK:   No, I was excited.   It's a win‑win situation, if you're chosen you get to come here, experience this, get to know some of your peers and some of the greatest young guys in the NBA and just experience the weekend.   
And I've never been to New Orleans before, so I never experienced that.   If you're not chosen, you get a break.   So you kind of can't lose right there.  
   
 Q.   And you got a teammate this year?  
KELLY OLYNYK:   Definitely.   Here with Sully.   That's big.   I got to congratulate him as well.   He's had an unbelievable year.   So to be here with him, it's good to have someone there with you.   And we'll get together and celebrate that accomplishment together.   
   
 Q.   How is your relationship?  
KELLY OLYNYK:   It's pretty solid.   He was there all summer and in the summer leagues out there.   So he's a great guy, a great teammate, always looking out for you.   And I learned a lot from him early on.   And it's great.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever been to an All‑Star Weekend before?  
KELLY OLYNYK:   No.  
   
 Q.   Just as a fan?  
KELLY OLYNYK:   No.  
   
 Q.   What are you looking to do while you're here?   Not only it is your first All‑Star, but also first time in New Orleans.   
KELLY OLYNYK:   Just take it, take it all in stride.   Embrace it all, the city and the weekend.   Enjoy as much of it as I can.   
I got my family down here, my mom, my two sisters, so hopefully they will have a good time.   
   
 Q.   In a couple years it comes to your native land, Toronto.   Won't be that be something?  
KELLY OLYNYK:   That will be something.   I hope I get there for that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT