NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 3, 2000
Mike James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Were you surprised to be used that early in the game?
 
MIKE JAMES:  Not really.  I mean, being in a Playoff situation like that, we pretty much were -- guys in the bullpen were pretty much ready from the first pitch on.  We had to be ready from anything, anything that could have happened.  I think as soon as the Anthem was sung, we were all ready to go. 
 
Q.  What were your thoughts coming into a tough situation like that?
 
MIKE JAMES:  Just trying to do what I have been doing the last six months, concentrate on what I had to get done, working with Carlos, my catcher, staying relaxed, taking care of business. 
 
Q.  Any thoughts about being up 1-0 in a short series?
 
MIKE JAMES:  Definitely.  To get the first win like that, you need three wins in a series like this.  If you get the first one like this, it is pretty big, especially against a team like Atlanta.  And to be on home turf, it is a huge win, actually. 
 
Q.  Could you empathize with what Maddux and Ankiel were going through, it was a tough day for them?
 
MIKE JAMES:  Yeah, it was, you know, both of them kind of struggled.  Maddux -- giving up six runs in the first inning -- we did not expect that.  With his record, his history, could have given him the win off the bat, but that is why we played. Anything can happen and it did.  It worked out good. 
 
Q.  After bouncing around a long time in the Minor Leagues, you got your chance here, can you describe the butterflies bouncing around when you got in there?
 
MIKE JAMES:  Butterflies are more like anxiety, more excited to get in there, not knowing what would happen, the end result; but, it is a nice moment, just from all the years in Minor Leagues, just to be a part of something like this, is really special. 
 
Q.  Were you nervous when you went up to the plate to bat?
 
MIKE JAMES:  Yeah, actually, I was.  I didn't know what the situation was, two guys on, no outs.  I was pretty sure I was going to bunt.  Yes, I was nervous, facing Maddux.  It's something I can tell my kids one day.  (Laughter.)  Thank you, guys. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT