NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Tiny Gallon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  No. 47 Selection, Milwaukee Bucks

 Q. Talk about your feelings. 
 TINY GALLON: You know, I was sitting out there, a little bit nervous. People were saying I could go in the first round and saying a lot of stuff like that, but I mean, when I seen it was getting close to the end of first round, I was like, okay, I might be in the second round. 
 And once I seen the second round kept going, and I just said, okay, I'm going to get picked up by one of these teams. And I said, okay, whatever happens, happens. All it is is in God's hands, so I was ready for it. 

 Q. Do you feel like you really should have been a first round pick in your heart? 
 TINY GALLON: Yeah, I think I should have been a first-rounder, but I can't complain about it, as long as I'm on the team.
 I'm on the team, I have a great point guard, a great friend, Brandon that's going to push me. I've got a great coach now, Scott Skiles. As long as I'm in the right position to play, I think it's okay, it's fine with me. I have something to prove every day.

 Q. What will the fans expect from you? What will you bring to the team? 
 TINY GALLON: I'm going to bring a lot. Everybody, even the Knicks fans was saying, he's a steal. I'm going to bring a lot to this team, I promise you. I'm going to bring a lot to Milwaukee. 

 Q. Are you really ready for Scott Skiles? 
 TINY GALLON: No, I'm ready. When I went to their workout, I seen how serious he was. But I know for the hour and a half, two hours, it's all business. This is not a kid's game. This is business and I'm willing to put in the work for that with Coach and plus, you know, I know Coach Sampson from Oklahoma and all that stuff and I'm going to deal with him and I'm going to put in the extra work. I'm going to put in the extra work.

 Q. What can you tell people who are out there who will go through some of the things that happened with you?
 TINY GALLON: I think for me it was a great experience, seeing some of my great friends -- DeMarcus since eighth grade; if you are close with people in the Draft, I came out here to support them, too. When their name was called I stood up and clapped for them.
 Just come up there with a positive attitude and come up here and stay positive. As long as you're blessed on a team to play professional basketball, I think that's great. I think there's a lot of kids that would love to be in my shoes right now, that would love to be in my shoes to play basketball. I just come with a positive attitude. 
 I had my mother out there, she was kind of down but she was happy that my name was called and I told her, I promise that I'm going to do a lot of stuff for Milwaukee.

 Q. Do you feel like you got a second chance of sorts because you feel as though you dropped but you think you should have been that top-tier talent? You alluded to being a steal; does that empower you to be a better player than you are? 
 TINY GALLON: It's like a fuel to the fire. I'm going to be upset playing, that's what you've got to be, but I'm going to be even more upset when I go out there because I know I should have been in this situation, or I think I should have been first round and I think I should have been somewhere I was supposed to have been, but I love Milwaukee and I love the Bucks, so like I said, them putting me right there in the right situation, I'm just going have to work a little more harder, which I'm willing to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT