EA SPORTS MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 18, 2012
Roy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  JAY BILAS:   Thanks, Rick.   Our next coach is Roy Williams of the University of North Carolina.   Coach Williams is a member of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.   Doesn't take much to figure out why.   He's had an extraordinary career.   First at Kansas, and now at North Carolina.   He's won two national championships in 2005 and 2009. 
    I think in both those seasons he started off with a championship here at the Maui Invitational.   So this has been quite a springboard to great things for Coach Williams and the North Carolina Tar Heels. 
    He's in his tenth season as head coach‑‑ seems like you just got there, just came back yesterday.   Roy Williams, North Carolina.
    COACH WILLIAMS:   Thank you very much, Jay.   We do realize that Jay is a Duke graduate.   So, Rick, the fact he doesn't say anything about your number of wins is not a problem.   He just said that Buzz had been at Marquette for five years and gone to seven straight NCAA tournaments in five years.   (Laughter). 
    JAY BILAS:   I'm just reading the copy.
    COACH WILLIAMS:   Which Duke did the copy.   Is that not right, Buzz, five years‑‑ that's a hell of a record.
    JAY BILAS:   That's how good of a coach he is.
    COACH WILLIAMS:   I just didn't have the equity to say it. 
    COACH WILLIAMS:   Anybody's got equity to say anything about Jay.   We're as happy as we possibly can be to be here, to say the least.   We've played three games already.   And we haven't faced the kind of competition that we're going to face here.
    I truly believe this is by far, year in and year out, this is no exception, the best of these tournaments.   I think it sets a standard for everyone else.   This year going to four games and letting you have the game at home first is something, I think, was a good deal to have as well. 
    But the hospitality that you receive here, the work of everybody, Jay and Dave and Brianna, and even Dr.Nichols over here, saying something good about the officials, it's really unsurpassed around the country.   And I really believe it's the greatest tournament.   And we're here with a very young team and we're excited to be here.   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT