ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2019
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NEIL AHERN: Dustin, thank you very much for joining us.  Welcome back to the Abu Dhabi HSBC championship.  This is your third time here.  Is it nice to be back here in the desert?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I enjoy coming here.  Obviously I've been here the last three years.  It's a place where I've enjoyed coming.  I like the golf course.  I like the people here.  It's been really good.
NEIL AHERN: You've got a runner-up finish and a Top-10, as well.  Obviously this course suits you.  Are you feeling quite confident this week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I feel like the game's in good form.  I've been working on it since Hawai'i, so I feel like it's definitely gotten a little bit better, and I'm looking forward to seeing how it holds up this week on the golf course.
NEIL AHERN: Obviously the beginning of The European Tour season here.  You've obviously started the season already on the PGA TOUR, but what kind of goals have you set for this season?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: For me, I don't really set like outcome goals.  Obviously it's more kind of preparation and kind of putting myself in positions to have chances to win each week.
You know, I think if I can prepare myself properly, then, you know, everything else will come.
Q. What would be a really good season for you?  What would it comprise of?  Is it a few major wins?  How do you look at a very good season for yourself?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, a few major wins would definitely be a good season (smiling) yeah.
You know, just consistency, playing well.  You know, obviously winning, but you know, competing each week.  Giving myself -- putting myself in the position to have a chance to win.
Obviously it's very hard to win out here.  But giving myself the opportunity to have a chance to win, I think that's important.  And then, yeah, obviously the number of wins you have in a season will definitely dictate if it's good or not.
Q. You've got that fantastic streak of winning every year on the PGA TOUR.  Just wonder, what would mean more to you, getting back to world No. 1 or keeping that streak going?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Both.  I think they are both important and they are both something that I'm striving to do is get back to No. 1 and then obviously I definitely want to keep the win streak alive.
Q. How much does No. 1 mean to you?  Because obviously it's pretty tight at the top, and we've seen the change recently with Justin not even playing?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, all the guys at the top of the World Ranking are playing very well, and they have been for the last few years.  It's going to be tough to get back to that No. 1 spot, but you know, if I continue to play well, continue to play like I have the last couple years, then I think I'll get back there.
Q. You've won if a lot in America, but you've not won in Europe yet and you have two chances in the next three weeks.  What would it mean to you as a player to win in Europe and what does it mean to you to play around the world?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it would definitely mean a lot.  I would like to win over here.
Obviously I haven't played too many events over here, but yeah, I want to win every tournament I play in no matter where it is and what tournament it is.  It's definitely a goal of mine this week is to put myself in position to have a chance to win on Sunday.
Q. When you look at your stats at the end of the year, and if you plan for the next season, if I have to ask you which are, say, two of the most important stats that you want to really improve upon for 2019, or which would that be?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, you can always put better.  So putting would definitely be a stat I would like to improve on.  That's a stat I've been working pretty hard on the last couple weeks is to try to improve my putting and just be a lot more consistent.
Then, if I can hit more fairways.
Q. With the change to the major calendar, did it make you think twice about coming here for two weeks at the start of the year when the majors come so thick and fast, and how do you think it's going to work out for you, the season?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I like the schedule changes.  I think they are really good.  For me, coming over here to play, I had a break in my schedule, so it actually worked out because I wouldn't be playing even on the US Tour right now.  So it worked out where I had the time to come over and play.
Yeah, I mean, I like coming over here to play, but it definitely fits my schedule to where I have the time to do it.
Q. Tom wants to know what the real DJ is like away from the golf course.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just like you see here (smiling).
Q. Chilled out?  Relaxed?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes.  What do I do when I'm not playing golf?  Hang out with the kids.  If I'm doing stuff I like to do, I like to dive.  I like to spearfish.  You know, anything in the water, fishing, so if I'm not hanging out with the family.
Q. And Gareth wants to know how much do you enjoy playing on The European Tour and how different is the experience of The European Tour in comparison to the PGA TOUR.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's really not that much different.  Other than the travel.  That's about the only difference.  The European Tour's spaced out a lot more than the US Tour, but it's really not a whole lot of difference.
Q. Where would you say your game is now compared to the Masters in 2017 in terms of percentage-wise?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously it was very good at that time.  I'm seeing signs of it getting back to where it was.  I feel like, you know, the swing's definitely improved over the last couple weeks.  I like where my game's at right this minute, and you know, it can always get better.
So I'm definitely trying to get back to that form.
Q. I watched you putting yesterday and Rayhan Thomas, who is one of our very bright young guys over here, he was standing with you and Claude and watching you and talking to you.  I know you know him, as well.  Can you just tell us something about him, what you think about him, and the fact that he is going to go to play college golf in America, something about him?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, yeah, I met him a couple years ago when I came here for the first time.  Obviously he's a really good young player.  He's got a lot of potential.  Obviously nobody really knows where that will go, but he's definitely got the skills to be a good player.
Q. I heard you saying you were working on your putting.  Have you been experimenting with keeping the flag in like Bryson has over on the PGA TOUR?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I haven't.  I don't know.  I tried to hit a couple putts with the flag in in Hawai'i and I couldn't do it.
The only time that there will be a situation where I'll leave the flag in is a long putt where normally I'll have my caddie tend the flag, and I'll just leave the flag in.  That's really the only scenario that I can see at this moment.
You know, if I do some more testing and I feel like it's beneficial to leave the flag in, then, you know, it could possibly see some situations where I'll do that.  But as of right now, I'm going to putt with the flag out.
Q. Give us your thoughts on the M5 and is it in the bag this week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The M5 is in the bag.  I played with it in had ay withe.  Yeah, I've really liked the driver.  I think it's the best driver we've made.  You know, every year that we come out with a new driver, I always feel like, I don't know how they do it, but they always somehow tend to make it better than the previous one, which I didn't think they could possibly do.
But you know, TaylorMade does a great job, and they are always innovating new products, and they always seem to make them better than the previous ones.
NEIL AHERN: Thank you very much, Dustin.  Have a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT