MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 13, 2020
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We welcome Dustin Johnson back to the press building. I know it's been a long day. You were saying you were up at four o'clock this morning. You've played a lot of golf, and built on your performance of the first round by birdieing Amen Corner, which is an achievement in itself. Congratulations on that, and then a great birdie on 9 to finish the round. Tell us how you feel about the day and the way the day went. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, I'm pretty pleased the way I played today. Hit a lot of really good shots. Gave myself a lot of good looks. Just can't really roll any putts in. 
Obviously I made a few there a 11, 12, and 13, and then after that hit a lot of good putts. Just kept burning the edges. A couple lip‑outs, but definitely pleased with how I'm swinging the club and controlling the golf ball right now. 
THE MODERATOR: You did have one lip‑out that went more than 360 degrees, what hole was that. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: That was on 3, about ten feet. 
THE MODERATOR: Should have gone in for you, I think. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought so. 
THE MODERATOR: That's golf. Questions, please. 
   
Q. How different were conditions today or were they different? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: From? 
   
Q. Yesterday. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought the conditions of the golf course were really similar. The greens were a little bit quicker today than they were yesterday. The wind this afternoon was a little gusty at times. At times it wasn't blowing at all and at times it was blowing 15. It's a little tougher to get a beat on the wind, but all in all the course played pretty similar. 
   
Q. Out of curiosity, on 14 in the morning, have you ever had to hit a putt as hard as you hit that one? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: That was‑‑ I don't think you can get a longer putt out here, either. That's about as long as you could get. But no, that was almost a half‑swing there. Made a nice two‑putt. 
   
Q. Very nice two‑putt. If we fast forward to the afternoon, you three‑putt on 14 and then into the water on 15. Did that at all do anything momentum‑wise? You didn't lose any but the string of 10 or 12 pars, did that slow you? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It didn't. 14 had a little bit of dirt on the ball and it turned right‑to‑left instead of cut. Stayed up on top of the hill, which is a spot where I knew I couldn't hit it. 
Then 15, I hit a good shot. Just got a gust of the wind. 
   
Q. What was it? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit a good shot. 3‑iron. Just wind picked up a little bit and floated on me a hair and came up a couple yards short. Hit a nice little pitch in there. Had a good look at par. Just hit a good putt there, too. Just underrated just a hair. 
   
Q. The forecast is good for the next two days. Do you have any hunches on how do you think, can the course firm up a bit, or will it play much like it has, do you think? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it can firm up a little bit, but it's going to be tough for it to get firm. 
But yeah, we're still going to have to go out. I think it's going to be soft enough to where you're going to have to attack the golf course and play aggressive and keep swinging like I am. I like where I'm at. I like my position. Obviously I feel like I'll be somewhere around the lead, probably not in the lead, but within a few shots, at least, and in a good position heading into the weekend. 
   
Q. If somebody told you you would be 9‑under after 36 holes at the Masters, how would you have felt about that? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Before I teed off, I think I would have taken it. But obviously I feel like I played a little bit better than my position right now, but you know, I'm still happy with the way I'm swinging it, how I'm controlling the golf ball and everything I'm doing. You know, rolling the putter good. Just hopefully can see a few more go in over the weekend. 
   
Q. A couple questions about your day. Started at 4:00 a.m.? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes, I woke up sometime around there, about 4:05 maybe. 
   
Q. Are you that much of a morning person? Does it take you a while to get going? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, as much of a morning person as anybody. I just get up when I have to get up. 
   
Q. How was the rhythm of these strange couple days for you and maintaining your rhythm over the first two rounds? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's been good. Starting yesterday afternoon, we knew probably get nine holes in. That was kind of what I figured. And then obviously knew today was going to be a long day. 
You know, it's a day where if you can get it going, you've got 27 holes to play, so it could work in your favor. I felt like that through the start of the second round. You know, kept it going, really. I felt like I swung it well. I was hitting the shots that I wanted to hit and giving myself some good opportunities for birdies. Just didn't make anything. 
   
Q. As you look to the weekend and being in the mix, what feels sharpest in the game and what would you like to dial up a little bit? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: For me, just need to play the par 5s a little bit better over the weekend. I think that's the only thing that I need to really do any better is just figure out how to get some better looks on the par 5s. 
   
Q. What do you consider the best shot you hit today, and where do you feel like you showed the most patience? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Best shot. It's been a long day. I mean, both the shots I hit on 12 today, I like. I made birdie both times. So I take that any day of the week. It's just a good little par 3 and hit two really nice shots there. 
   
Q. I was thinking a little bit about the second hole again yesterday as a way of asking you if there are shots that you're hitting this week because of the conditions that you would never attempt in normal conditions in April? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, with the conditions being soft, it's whatever club you're hitting, you can stop it. So yeah, obviously there's flags that you can go at that in April, or when the greens are firm, you can't. 
   
Q. Any examples of that today in the long day that you can't remember? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: There's a lot of shots. But like, yeah, the pin on 2 yesterday, you know, you can't fly it over there and stop it generally. Obviously with the conditions, you can. So there's a lot of pins where just any of the pins that are sitting up high, you can't fly them all the way to the flag or it bounces over the green, where right now, it pretty much is stopping where it lands. 
   
Q. Were you aiming there yesterday on 2 or did you think it was trouble when you came off your club? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I was aiming a little right of that, to be honest. It turned over a little bit, and then I was hoping it would be the right distance, and it was. 
THE MODERATOR: We thank you very much for being here, and you hit a lot of great shots today and wish you a great weekend. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT