SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 3, 2019
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Most guys go through a dozen golf balls playing, you go through a dozen just signing autographs for kids, but that's the fun part, isn't it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I love signing for the kids, yes, that's what it's all about, trying to grow the game and it's nice to support the little guys that come out here.  So I never mind doing that.
Q. Fair to say you love this golf course?  The way you played, you looked at ease, you look comfortable out here?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I played well today, I drove it good, if I drive it well I feel like I can play the golf course well.  Today was a good day, definitely I left a couple shots out there, but first round of the year I'm pretty pleased with it.
Q. Tell me about the chip here on 18 on your third shot.  Most people would say that was a brilliant shot.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it was just a really, really tough one to cut it close.  I had a little bit of wind into me and I would fly it a little further, take some of the break out, I felt like I had a little more room for error with a chip instead of a high shot.  Most of the time the putter is the play but not when you have so much slope you have to deal with, but it worked out.
Q. The defending champion, back in a familiar spot on the first page of that leaderboard.  As you look back on this round what were your strengths?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well I did everything pretty well, I felt like.  I drove it pretty good, I hit a lot of good iron shots, left a couple shots out there, missed a couple short ones, but it wasn't -- just a little bit of wind was all, I hit good putts, it just, the wind got me a couple times.  But I mean it's windy, it's getting everyone.  All in all it was a really solid day and I'm pleased with the score.
Q. You said you like being aggressive out here, did the wind affect your aggressiveness at all today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, you just kind of play the golf course as it comes.  But, yeah, I mean it's, it all depends on the flags whether to be aggressive or when you can't be.  There's a few holes out here where you just try to make a par and kind of move on, but there's a lot, you get a lot of opportunities out here where you can get some good birdie looks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT