THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Dustin, did you think you made the ace?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: When I saw everybody behind the green, started to go crazy, so I knew it was close.
Q. You sure it wasn't for Tiger teeing off on the next hole?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I was kind of debating whether they were yelling for me or him.
Q. Have you had a round like this lately where it looked as though you had no idea where the ball was going?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, early, I didn't have any idea.  None.  None whatsoever.
Q. You were still 4-under at one point?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I was scrambling pretty well.
Q. What was going on and what did you figure out?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I have no idea, and I still don't know.  But I'm going to go try and figure it out when I get to the driving range.
Q. What did you shoot?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: 4-under.
Q. What was the plan at 12?  You laid up and your playing partners went for the green?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, like yesterday, that was again, that was one of the earlier holes.  Wasn't real sure where the ball was going quite yet.  At least off the tee, it didn't matter what club it was.  3-iron, I snap-hooked it.  I haven't played a hook with anything in a long time.
But yeah, yesterday, I hit a perfect shot.  Like a yard right of the flag with a 3-wood, and it hit in the bunker and went down to the back right bunker, and where I couldn't even play it.  I figure if I lay up, I can pitch on the green pretty easy, no matter if I was in the rough or in the fairway.  It's a fairly easy shot from down there.  That's why I just decided to lay up every day on that hole.
Q. What was your decision on putters?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I always practice with my blade, like when I'm at home, and I've been playing with it at home a good bit.  It's like I always just never can pull the trigger when it comes time to tee it up.  I left all my other putters at home this week, so I didn't have a choice.  I like the way I putt with it.  I feel like I've got better feel and line up really well with it.
Q. What does it do for your other putters?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It just helps me swing the other putter a little better, instead of too, I don't know, I call it mechanical or rigid.
Q. Dustin, you are the best player in world.  When you are on the golf course and you make a mistake, you are not able to figure out straightaway on next hole?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, generally I can.  Generally.  Today was an unusual day for me.  I haven't had the driver go this crooked in a long time.  It had nothing to do with the driver.  It was the drivee.
But I figured it out, and it doesn't matter.  I can figure out a way to get around the golf course like I did today, even though I didn't have my best stuff.  But I still -- my iron play was good.  My wedges were good.  I can still figure out how to hit those close to the hole, and I did.  And once we had made the turn, I think I hit most of the fairways when I was finishing.
Q. Exciting?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, very exciting.
Q. What does it say when you shoot 67 --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was a good round.
Q. What do you look back at?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was a good round but the triple was just so bad.  I'm trying to hit a high cut and to the right side.  I hit that ball 70 yards left of where I was looking, and in general, if I'm trying to hit a high cut, if anything, I'm going to over cut it to the right, and it came off low and hooked.  So I just laughed.  I literally just laughed the way I hit the shot.  I haven't hit that shot in a long time, so it was kind of funny.  Wasn't funny when I made a triple, though.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT