THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 22, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Dustin Johnson, defending champion here at The Northern Trust, FedExCup standings leader.
You've been so close so many times at the FedExCup.  So just talk about what it would mean to finally hoist that trophy at the end of the season this year.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it would be -- it's definitely a big accomplishment.  It's something that I really would like to win.  To be the FedExCup champion means obviously you played really well in the playoffs but you also had a great year, too.
So it's something that it's definitely on my list of accomplishments that I would love to achieve.
THE MODERATOR: Overall thoughts on Ridgewood.  It's been a while since you played here.  Thoughts on the course, what key part of your game you'll need this week in order to really produce good scores.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, yeah, I played it today.  I played it -- the last time I played here was in '10.  I honestly did not remember the golf course very well.  I remembered 17 and 18.  That was about it.  And I remember Kuch winning.
But, yeah, the golf course is great.  I feel like it's in great shape.  It's -- I think it's challenging golf course.  You're going to have to drive it straight.  The rough's really thick.  So you definitely don't want to be playing from the rough.
But I think it's going to be a good test this week.  It's a good golf course.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. I think you've only missed the playoffs once in your career.  Given the fact that there's been so much golf played lately and some guys have skipped this week to get some rest, do you ever consider giving your position on the FedExCup list right now maybe taking a week off?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.
Q. If no, why not?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I haven't played too many events this year.  So I think I need to play these events to hit my number.  So I think this is only like 16 for me this year.  Maybe 17, max.  So that's why I play them.
Q. Was there any point in your career you thought about maybe taking a week off get some rest, the Ryder Cup?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I had a week off last week.
Q. During the playoffs --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I have one off in three weeks.  So to answer your question, no.  (Laughter).
Q. You're, I think, 83 points ahead of J.T. on the FedExCup list.  With such a thin margin like that, do you even consider that a lead of any kind, or do you just sort of consider it like anything could happen?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, we've got three events before we get to the TOUR Championship.  And, yeah, 83 points in the playoffs is not a big lead.  So, yeah, I mean it's going to be -- I'm going to have to play well if I want to keep the lead the next three events.
Q. You don't take week off because maybe you feel the golfing, golf is like lifestyle, holidays?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I had a week off last week.
Q. You putt with a green putter -- which color is your putter right now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Silver.
Q. But before you played black?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes.
Q. I heard that you don't want to play red because some of the players won with it or something like this?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, just never really liked it, the way it looks, personally.  Some of the guys like it and putt well with it.
Q. If you had a friend who didn't know anything about golf or the TOUR season and asked you what the FedExCup was, what would be the quickest answer you could give?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's the playoffs.  You asked for a quick answer.  So that's what --
Q. That's perfect.  That's great.  Then secondly, unrelated, what are you most proud of this year?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm proud of the way I played this year for the most part.  I feel like I've had three wins, which is a really good season.  And obviously we still have four more events to play and then the Ryder Cup.  So it's not over yet.  And it still could become a great season.  Depending on how I play in the playoffs.
But probably most proud, I think, I don't know, Memphis I felt like was a big win for me.  And then after missing the cut at Carnoustie, which I didn't feel like I played that bad at Carnoustie, coming back to win in Canada, I'm definitely proud of that.
Q. On that note, I think -- I think it's three years in a row, three wins, do you ever take it for granted especially when you consider someone like Spieth who was in the running for Player of the Year last year and still hasn't won, do you ever find yourself taking it for granting that winning is not easy?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I think it's always difficult.  I think I've always said it.  It's very hard to win on TOUR.  There's so many guys.  Every guy in the field legitimately has a chance to win.
So that's why it's so hard to win out here on TOUR.  And it doesn't matter what week you're playing, what tournament it is, it's difficult to win.
Q. To see Tiger competing the way he's been playing lately, what's that been like to see for you and what does that mean for the sport of golf?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it's great for the sport of golf.  It helps all of us.  It's good for the game.  It's good for everyone.  So I like to see them competing.
Q. What's your strategy on the 12th hole here, the drivable par-4?  Do you always go for it or do you do anything in your practice to get ready for it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  I mean, today I went for it but probably during the tournament I'm not going to.  There's nowhere good to hit it except on the green.
And it's not very easy that green's not very big.  So I'll probably layup most of the day.  You never know.  But most likely I'll layup.
Q. You and J.T. and Bubba have got three wins this year with a chance for more, obviously.  We were talking to Tiger yesterday about the Player of the Year dynamic.  And he was of the belief that two majors for Brooks kind of trumps everything and nobody could kind of take over for that.  Where do you fall on that, maybe you're a little biased because you're still in the mix?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously Brooks has had a great season winning the U.S. Open and the PGA.  I think it kind of depends on what happens the next few weeks, too, that could -- I just don't know.  You never know what happens.  If it ended right now, yeah, I think Brooks would probably be, would probably get it.  But we still have four playoff events in the FedExCup and I think it could definitely change the outcome of what people think of who the player of the year is.
Q. Tiger is a part of the team on Ryder Cup, you like to be paired with him?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'd like to play with Tiger.  It's just fine.  We played before we get along well.  I think our games match up just perfect.
Q. You don't get -- you don't get fired up about much.  You're obviously very even-keeled, but is there a fire inside that you haven't won the FedExCup; is there something there that annoys you at all given the chances you had?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I'm fired up all the time.  I just don't let you guys see it.  (Laughter)  You'll never know.  But, I mean, obviously I've got a lot of fire running inside of me and there's a lot of things I want to do that I haven't done.  So, yeah, that keeps pushing me, though.
Q. Not necessarily applies to any of the top guys right now, but for years, if someone finished their career without a major, it was looked upon as a gaping hole in their resumé.  Could you ever see a point where if someone ended their career without ever winning the FedExCup they would feel the same way?  Not trying to equate FedExCup with a major, but kind of the achievement.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I think so.  Absolutely.  I think the FedExCup has become a really big part of the PGA TOUR and it's going to continue to just get bigger.  It's something that I really want to win.  I can't speak for all the other guys, but if I don't ever win one, I'd definitely be disappointed.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT