PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you explain the day?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like the day was pretty solid.  Hit a lot of putts.  Made a few, missed a few.  Didn't drive it quite as well as I'd like to.  We had a bunch of -- hit a few fairways, but I didn't hit as many as I needed to if I wanted to shoot a low score.
Coming home, that was really the key.  Missed the fairway on 13, made bogey.  I had a good look for par.  And then same on 17, I hit it in the creek.  But I'd still given myself a really good chance at making a par there.  It was just poor tee shots coming home.
Q. Is that the take away, though, all in all, that was a good first round for you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Absolutely.  Solid.  I'm right there.  Still got a lot of golf to go.  I'll try to come out tomorrow morning and get after it.
Q. Dustin, what do you think of the gallery and crowd?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, we had big crowds out there.  They were great.  It's a lot of fun to play for a big crowd.  I felt like I had a lot of support.
Q. How did the course play, Dustin?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought the course played good.  It was in good shape.  Greens are soft, but it's going to be like that for the rest of the week, I feel like.  You know, they still made it fairly difficult.  You've got to hit the fairways.  You've got to be precise when you're coming in with your irons.
Q. You putted well.  We heard the greens were quite a bit slow, but you obviously putted well.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I felt like the greens were just fine.  A little bumpy late in the day, but you expect that no matter where you play.
Q. Is there a difference starting in the morning versus starting in the afternoon?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It doesn't matter.  Hopefully it's in the afternoon on the weekend.
Q. (No microphone).  Do you think A for effort for getting in so late?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, absolutely.
Q. Dustin, what was the most challenging -- I know you touched on this.  What is most challenging to you about this course?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just getting in the fairway.  They're generous, but you have to hit the fairways.  You're going to really struggle.
Q. Rory was saying, though, shots like in Akron that were in the trees, here are playable.  He was saying there's some wide open shots out here.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The fairways are plenty wide.  If you miss it, you mis-hit it, it's not going to be on the fairway.  You miss the fairway, you're really going to struggle.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT