PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How happy are you with that round out there today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was good at the end.  I played my back nine really well.  I drove it a lot better though on the back nine.  I got off to -- just didn't hit very good drives on the front nine which is the back side, but still felt like I was swinging well, especially with the irons.  I still hit a lot of good shots, I had a lot of good looks at birdie on the back nine, just didn't make any.  And made the turn there and had some good looks and rolled a few in on the last seven holes.   
 Q.  Are you able to carry momentum in from Firestone?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I feel like since, even at the Open Championship, certainly at the Open Championship, even the U.S. Open, I feel like I've been swinging the club well and so, yeah, it carries over, for sure.  Even the British Open this year I felt like I hit it plenty good enough to be in contention after two days, I just putted really poorly.  I feel like I'm starting to roll the putter really well, seeing the lines good.  And I'm definitely swinging well.  And just I was a little off on the front and then turned it around on the back nine and I made a bunch of birdies.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it was a drive off number 11.  Someone blocked it out to the right and it was just happened to land like right in my down swing, so.  But I made birdie, so it's all right.  It's okay.   
 Q.  With your family ties to St. Louis, are you really familiar with this course or do you play here a lot, do you feel like you know it well?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Never played it until Monday.  No.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel like I got a pretty good bead on it.  It's pretty straightforward.  You hit it in the fairway and hit it on the green.   
 Q.  And your thoughts on the greens, they've been kind of second guessed and scrutinized.  What do you think of the way the course is playing?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think the course is playing just fine.  The course is in good shape, the greens are rolling nicely.  They're soft and a little bit slow, but with all the rain they can't really, there's not really much they can do.   
 Q.  You're in a great position here.  What would it mean to you to add a second career Major Tour tally right here this weekend?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, it would mean a lot.  I'm definitely wanting to get that second Major.  I'm in a good position going into the weekend, I'm going to have to play a good 36 holes though if I want to have a chance to win.   
 Q.  Guys were saying that the greens are a little bit slower this week.  Are you a little bit more comfortable on slower greens?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Doesn't matter.  I like fast, slow.  As long as they roll good, I don't care.  These roll, they seem to be rolling just fine.   
 Q.  Do you think careers are really defined by the major championships or wins or both?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it's both wins and how many wins you can get, but winning Majors definitely helps.  But I think that the number of wins also is a big factor.   
 Q.  How has the crowd been here just in terms of St. Louis hosting this event?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: We have had great crowds.  Big crowds.  I feel like I got a lot of support out there and I got a lot of fans, so it's been a lot of fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT