RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Really strong start there, three birdies in a row, and then you kind of struggled there a little bit in the middle but finished strong.  What was your key to today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, definitely got off to a really nice start and made a couple good par saves in there, too.  But yeah, I mean, I putted really well today.  I felt like I was definitely rolling the putter nicely.  Didn't hit as many fairways as I would have liked to have hit.  This golf course is -- you can shoot really low, which I did shoot a good score today, but if you're in the fairway, you can attack pretty much every hole.  If you're not in the fairway, it definitely makes it a lot more difficult.   
 Q.  You've had a lot of great results around here.  What's your comfort level going into tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I like the golf course.  I feel like my game is in really good form.  I've got a lot of confidence in it.  You know, I feel like I'm really swinging well, so I'm going to have to go out and play really well tomorrow.  There's definitely low numbers out here.  There's a lot of guys that are right around the lead, and somebody is going to go shoot low.  Hopefully it's me.   
But yeah, I'm going to have to go out and play really well, play aggressive, and make a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  Is this the best putting round you've had in a while?  Or close to it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, probably.  I mean, I felt like -- I just felt like I was rolling it down the line all day, which is a good feeling, because I feel like I read the greens really well.  It was definitely -- it was nice to see some putts go in the hole finally.   
 Q.  You mentioned the strong start, 5-under through six holes.  How were you able to battle the adversity of your bogeying holes 10 and 13 to finish 4-under the last five holes?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, I really didn't do -- I hit the drive a little right on 10, but I still had a nice look at par.  Hit a good putt, it just lipped out.  So I never really got -- there wasn't really anything to do except just keep playing.  Same thing on 13.  It's dead into the wind.  I did hit kind of a poor wedge shot there from the fairway.  But still had a five- or six-footer for par, hit a good putt, it just lipped out.  So I never really got frustrated.  I knew I just needed to keep giving myself chances and I had two par-5s I could reach and a short par-3.  Just needed to keep on going.   
 Q.  What's the longest club you hit into a par-5 today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I couldn't reach 13 today.  I didn't hit a very good drive.   
 Q.  The other ones?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit wedge and 9-iron on 16 and 18.  2, I didn't have a chance.  I hit it in the left trees.  Made 4, though.  But yeah, tomorrow I need to play the par-5s a little better.  I haven't really played them that well this week.  Made a couple eagles, but yeah, haven't played all four of them good.   
 Q.  You were tinkering with a new putter on the green this morning, a little bit of a different head shape.  What was the logic there, and are you glad you didn't make a switch?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, I just got a new one, so I wanted to hit a few putts with it.  I was never going to switch, I just wanted to see how it rolled.   
 Q.  Is there any extra motivation to win this tournament given that, A, you finished second at Glen Abbey twice, and B, you signed a deal with RBC earlier this season?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I want to win just because I like to win golf tournaments.  But yeah, I mean, it's the last time the tournament is going to be here.  I am an RBC ambassador.  So it would mean a lot to get it done tomorrow, especially how I finished second here twice.  It's a golf course I like to play.  I've played well here, and I'd definitely like to just give myself a chance to win coming down the last few holes.   
 Q.  You were paired with Canadian Nick Taylor today, but it did seem like the crowd was probably even more on your side than they were on the Canadian's side.  Do you feel sort of like a Canadian, extra love, or do you get that everywhere you go?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I can thank Wayne for that.  There's a lot of Gretzky fans out there, and so they tend to pull for me, which thanks, Wayne, I appreciate that.  I do get a lot of love up here, and the fans have been great this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT