U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Dustin Johnson, 3-under 67, 4-under 136 for the Championship.
Q. D.J., could you just describe how the weather changed and how all the adjustments you had to make as you went through this round today?  Did you feel like you could get this course today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Starting out even, you know, through our first seven or eight holes, it was -- you know, it was pretty breezy and overcast.  So it felt like the course was playing -- you know, was playing really difficult.
But got off to a nice start.  Hit some really good shots early in the round, and then the little bit of rain came in, got a little cooler, and the golf ball wasn't going very far.  You know, the course played very tough.  I think we played six or seven holes in it.  It was playing really difficult.  But, you know, kind of hung in there and made some good saves for sure.
And I kind of kept the round going, and then, obviously, it cleared up for the last five or six holes, and it was nice.
Q. Putting speed.  Even like on 6 you're hitting uphill for birdie, and on 7, you got the steepest downhill to make the birdie.  Can you just describe how you adjusted to the speed of these greens?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel like I got good control of the speed.  I feel like I've got good feel on the greens right now.  I putted well for the first two days.  My speed's been really good.  Even when I've had long putts, I've got it up there pretty close to the hole.  And, you know, you get difficult putts out here with a lot of break on them, and I feel like I'm seeing the lines pretty well right now.
Q. Justin said a couple minutes ago that he thinks you're underrated as a bunker player.  You holed that yesterday.  You almost holed that again today.  Is that a fair assessment?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know.  I feel like I'm a good bunker player.  Doesn't really matter what anyone else thinks, right?
Q. Tomorrow, when you have the late tee time, will you watch any of the earlier coverage?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm going to go home and watch it right now.  Sit on the couch and -- yeah, I'm sure I'll watch a little bit tomorrow morning, depending on the tee time and how much I get to watch.  But, yeah, I'll watch a little bit for sure.
Q. Thank you.  Appreciate it.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT