THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
DUSTIN JOHNSON: You've got everything working pretty well, which I feel like I did.  I holed some nice putts and hit a lot of really good iron shots.  So I think that was the key today.
Q. I imagine this course suits your game very well?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I like the golf course.  It sets up well for me.  You've got to drive it -- the fairways are pretty generous, but you still got to hit good drives because you don't want to miss the fairways, especially with the rough the way it is this year.  And then you really got to control your distance coming into these greens with your irons.
Q. Just how tough is the rough right now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well it's kind of hit or miss.  You can get a decent lie where you can advance it or get it on the green but you can also, I've had a couple lies where I just had no chance of getting it to the green.
Q. When fairways are this generous, not that that works to your disadvantage for you, but can you lose focus a little bit because you're just not lasered in on that?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It just depends.  Some of the holes, yes, just because there's not really anything to aim at.  It would be a wide fairway and there's just (no microphone.)  So you can sometimes get a little lazy.  But most of the time you, the hole kind of shapes it for you.  But there's a few holes out here where you really got to focus on the target.
Q. Is this the kind of round that will carry you forward now on this weekend into the --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I feel like, I mean I feel like I've been playing like this all year, just haven't really holed any putts.  Today I didn't hole anything crazy, I just made the ones I should.
Q. Do you like your new putter?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's not new, it's old one.  But, yeah.  I like it.
Q. Is making the ones you should as important --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Absolutely.
Q. -- than hitting a bomb?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean would I rather make all the ones I should than make a bunch of long ones.  I mean you want to make both, but.  It's more, for me, it's all about starting it where I'm looking.  If I hit good putts with good speed where I'm looking, if they don't go in then it doesn't really, you know you hit a good putt and just keep on going.  It's when they're coming off sideways that you kind of get frustrated.
Q. Was there anything that you particularly wanted to see from your game this weekend?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: My last three tournaments, which was the Masters, Hilton Head, and PLAYERS, I feel like I played really well, all three events, I just didn't get anything out of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT