THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round today.  Especially 1-over after three then it really kicked in.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I didn't really get a lot out of it early.  I had a good look on the first hole and then made a nice up-and-down for par on the second and then just missed a putt on the third really.  Birdied three in a row after that.  Kind of got me starting off good.  I felt like I knew I was swinging it well and was doing everything really well, so I just needed to stay patient and just be aggressive when I could.  The golf course is very receptive so if you hit the fairway you can definitely fire at the flags.
Q. Speaking of your putting, you went back to an old friend.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I did.  I went back to my old putter I putted all last year with and it worked.  I felt good this morning on the putting green.  I'm definitely I felt comfortable with it in my hand, I played a lot of rounds of golf with it.  So it was definitely, it was nice to see a few putts go in.
Q. It looks like you feel very comfortable with the speed of the greens.  It looks like quicker the greens you better you putt.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I like fast greens, I always have.  I definitely putt better on fast greens I feel like.  There's a lot more feel involved and you got to have good speed, which I feel like I always have pretty good speed, but I definitely feel like I'm rolling the putter really nicely right now.
Q. You made nothing yesterday, I mean you got nothing out of the putter.  From what I understand is that you might have had a little word with Butch last night.  Not verbatim of talking to him, but what did he kind of generally tell you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, yeah he did, he texted me.  He said -- yeah, I can't really say what he said.  If I can continue to see some putts go in, I'm going to play very well.
Q. The scoring on the par-5s yesterday, I know you hit a couple really good tee shots, didn't really get much out of it.  Today a little bit of the same stuff.  What's it going to take to finally get these par-5s on the weekend?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, it seems like I always struggled on the par-5s here for some reason.  But, yeah, I need to do a little better job tomorrow and Sunday, especially if I want to climb up the leaderboard and be there on Sunday afternoon.
Q. How excited are you about the U.S. Open coming up at Shinnecock in a couple weeks now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm definitely, I'm very excited.  I haven't seen the golf course but I hear great things and so I'm looking forward to getting up there and seeing the course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT