RBC HERITAGE
April 13, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After back-to-back rounds of 69, 4-under, halfway home.  How would you describe the first two days at Harbour Town?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: They're okay.  Today I felt like I had a lot of opportunities, just didn't capitalize on them.  The game is in good shape.  I feel like I'm playing really solid.  I'm giving myself some chances, and looking forward to this weekend.  Definitely had a lot better showing here this year than I did my first two previous attempts.
Q. Last time you were here, 2009, what's it like to be back playing with all these fans?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's great.  We've had a great showing of fans out here the last two days.  And I'm sure the weekend is just going to get better.  But it was a lot of fun coming back to my home state playing.  And I'm looking forward to this weekend.
Q. How would you describe your second round?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was okay.  I felt like I'm hitting the ball well.  I just really didn't get a lot out of the round.  I just didn't get anything out of it.  Had a lot of opportunities, just didn't make any putts.  I feel like the game is in really good form.  I feel like I can definitely shoot some good scores out here if I keep playing the way I'm playing.
Q. Has that kind of been the first couple of days, just not making any putts?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I didn't really get on a roll.  Yesterday I made four birdies in a row or something, got a little bit going after a slow start.
But today I felt like I hit really good shots, just never really got rewarded for them.  And then I just burned the edges a lot with some putts.
Q. Is this tough, coming from the Masters to here, to kind of get going again mentally and physically, after such a demanding week at Augusta?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's definitely a different week.  It's a little more relaxed this week.  But I come here to compete.  I want to be able to have a chance to win on Sunday.  I'm not coming here just to hang out.  I'm coming here to play golf.  And so I feel like I'm ready for that.  I'm looking forward to a really good weekend.  I have to go really low tomorrow, though.
Q. How nice is it to be playing here in your home state this weekend?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's good.  I like this golf course.  I think it sets up well for me.  Just at this point it's all about rolling in some putts.  If I can roll in some putts starting tomorrow, especially get off to a nice start, I think I can post a pretty good score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT