THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm definitely surprised, but I think a lot of it has to do with putting.  I don't think I putted very well around here as a whole.  I've had definitely rounds where I putted well, but for the most part I haven't, that's one thing I've struggled around here with and obviously today I rolled it nicely.   
 Q.  Was it specific to here your putting or was it just a bad putting week?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I think just struggled on the greens here.  They're tough.  I feel like they're tough to read.  But today I felt like I did a very good job reading the greens.   
 Q.  Playing with these big featured groups and with everybody following, a different feel on a Thursday than you would have in other tournaments?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it's pretty normal every week to have quite a few people out watching you.   
 Q.  Your expectations any different when you come here, compared to other tournaments?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I mean my expectations are the same for every tournament.  I want to play well and I want to put myself in a position to have a chance to win on Sunday and coming into here it's no different.  I haven't had the best record here, but it's a golf course that I like, I enjoy playing and I feel like I should play well here.   
 Q.  It doesn't enter into your head when you come to a place where you didn't finish better than 12th?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, because I don't remember any of that stuff.   
 Q.  Just overall comments on your round.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like it was a really solid day, I drove it really well, hit a lot of greens.  I wasn't too sharp with the irons, but I still was on the green and rolled the putter very well.   
 Q.  Seemed like you had a lot of chances over the last four or five holes, reasonable chances.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I was -- they were all right.  I hit a couple decent shots, but...   
 Q.  Does your tendency of a fade ever hurt you around here?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I don't think so.   
 Q.  The No. 1 talk, is it any bit more motivating today or going into this week that any less so it was?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Every week Justin's pretty close, he's been pretty close to me for awhile, so I mean every week I know there's a chance that someone can pass me.  I definitely want to stay there, but if someone passes me it's not going to change anything, I'm going to still go back to next week and try to get it back.  So obviously this week if I play really well I'll still be number one.  If I don't, someone's going to pass me, which is okay.   
 Q.  Was it a big deal when you got there at Riviera and what I'm getting at is do you think that once you're there it's not as big a deal as it is to get there?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, it was definitely a big deal to get there and it's a big deal to stay there, I think.  Yeah, I mean, I like being No. 1, so I want to stay there.   
 Q.  On Morning Drive they were talking about they would like to see you push your work ethic again, push up your work level will.  Is he pushing you that way?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  I work as hard as I want to and I feel like I work pretty hard, so.  I don't want to wear myself out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT