AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Disappointing weekend here at Pebble Beach.  Can you pinpoint exactly what went wrong?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, not exactly.  I felt like I played okay, just a few shots I felt like I hit good shots that might have gone just over the green in some bad spots.  But yeah, I mean definitely a few iron shots cost me a few bogeys, which I played, but I shot 2-under here in 36 holes, which is not too good, especially as well as I feel like I'm playing.  But all in all still a good week.  T-2 I guess is not terrible, but yeah, I would like to have put a little bit more pressure on Ted.
Q. Certainly not terrible at all.  The good news is you're heading to Riviera next week.  You're the defending champion, there's a lot to take your mind off of this pretty quickly.  How good is it to be able to do that and just move right on to the next week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, no, got a golf course that I really like playing next week and the game's in pretty good form.  I'll go work on a few things Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday to get ready for next week.
Q. A chance to win fell through your fingers.  How do you describe how the last six hours played out?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just didn't have it.  I felt like I hit, even when I hit some really good shots it ended up in some terrible spots.  So kind of on 8 there I hit, I felt like I hit a great shot into 8 and ended up making bogey.  It was just kind of one of those days.  It felt like all day I was in between clubs, so I was either trying to hit one hard or take something off of one and it just never -- it just felt like all day just, it just did never really got in a rhythm out there.  It was really slow, but I feel like I'm swinging well, just didn't end up with good results.
Q. When you have a day like that what are the struggles to try to stay in it and continue to grind?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well I knew even still making the turn going into the back nine I was right there, I had a good chance.  The bogey on 11 really cost me when I felt like I hit a really good shot into 11.  It went what, six inches too far, hung up in the rough there.  It was just one of those days where nothing went my way and it is what it is.  Ted played well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT