MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. 3‑over at the turn. What changed on the back nine?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like I was hitting it pretty well on the front, just missed a couple putts. I hit good putts, just lipped out there on 2 and 3. I had some decent looks. But I hit some nice shots on the back nine and rolled in a couple putts. That was kind of the difference there between the front and the back.  
   
 Q. What was the difference on 15 with getting up‑and‑down out of the water?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, yeah, the ball just came out a little spinny out of that first cut and it came up short in the water. Then dropping there, I just dropped back on my number for my 60 degree and hit a really nice shot in there for a tap‑in par. So that was a good save.   
   
 Q. What's your mentality going into tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Same as today, I just need to go out and put together a solid round and maybe get a little bit closer to the lead. I feel like the game's in good form, I just need to roll in some putts tomorrow, that's all.  
   
 Q. What's it like when you have to wait for the last pairing to play and to start a Major and how do you approach that from where you watch the scoreboard, where you handle your business and then the rest of the week?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it, actually, it wasn't bad today, it was nice being out there last, you kind of knew how the golf course was playing, you knew it was playing fairly tough because nobody was really posting any low scores, until I guess Jordan shot 6‑under, which is a really good score, because I felt the wind was very tricky to get a bead on. It wasn't really blowing hard, but it's still enough to affect the ball, especially around here, a yard or two is a big difference.   
   
 Q. Does that give you momentum playing well on that back nine going into tomorrow with those couple birdies you had?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I felt even the front nine I felt like I played pretty well, I just missed two short putts. And then on 10 my putt, I thought it should have gone in the hole and it didn't. So I was 3‑over through 10 and without really doing anything too poorly.   
   
 Q. To have the patience like you have coming in, do you think about that at all or do you just play your game?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, just go out and play the golf course and play my game and that's what I'm going to do tomorrow, go out and attack the golf course just like I would any other day.   
   
 Q. Did you get to talk to Wesley at all in the lead up before his first round of the Masters and get to share anything with him in preparation for this tournament?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: We were both out here last week, so I saw Wesley and I talked to him a little bit. So, yeah, we got to chat a little bit.   
   
 Q. Anything that you told him where like, hey, just watch out for this or ‑‑  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, he's probably played out here more times than I have, so I don't think there's much I could tell him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT