AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 8, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DUSTIN JOHNSON: I could do things a little bit better but I had a lot of really good looks at birdie and didn't really make anything.  But all in all it's a pretty solid day, pretty easy day.
Q. Birdied all four of the par-5s out here.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, no, that was good.  I hit good drives on all of them.  I had to make a couple nice up-and-downs.  But, yeah, I mean out here for me, I definitely need to take advantage of the par-5s.  I have to do that on every course.
Q. Saw Wayne No. 99 helped you out on few holes too?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, he did.  Well right out of the gates he birdied the first hole for an eagle and then he made a nice par for birdie on 16.  So helped me out, helped us a couple shots.
Q. When you have a marquee pairing like you had today, does that matter to you?  Does it make it more interesting or more exciting or whatever?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it's fun.  I think that we -- me and Jordan and Wayne and Jake have played together the last four years or something.  So we have a lot of fun and so, yeah, it makes it fun and me and Jordan like playing together.  It's always interesting with Wayne and Jake too.  So, but, yeah, it makes for a fun day.  We're out here for a long time and so if you've got a good group you enjoy being with it makes the day a lot better.
Q. Was Spyglass a little more gettable given the conditions?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's definitely firmer, so some shots were tougher, especially if you missed greens, it's definitely tougher to get up-and-down.  But the back flags, it's a little bit easier to get the ball close to and, you know, the ball's not spinning as much.  But definitely have to be conscious of where you're hitting it.
Q. Is Wayne the fastest golfer you have ever played with?  Where did he learn to play so fast?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, he just, he just gets up and goes.  He just doesn't want to get in anybody's way and he never does.  But, yeah, he does play pretty quick.
Q. How much does your confidence feed off your driver?  You were obviously hitting that pretty good today.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean I've got -- definitely need to drive it a little bit better.  I hit a few bad drives, but got away with them.  But, yeah, I've been driving it well for awhile now, so.  For my game, if I drive it well I'm going to play well most of the time.
Q. Did you bogey the last?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  5-under.
Q. Pretty stress-free otherwise, wasn't it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it was fine.  Yeah, that was by far the worst shot that I hit.  But I got away with it.  It stayed in bounds there over on the left and had a clean shot on the green.
Q. Historically, what's your best or worst of the courses, scoring-wise?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Probably Monterey I would score the worst on for sure.  Don't know why, I like the golf course.  I feel like I should play really well there.  But for some reason I haven't the last few years, but I'm going to this year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT