AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 6, 2018
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Back at a place you've won a couple of times.  What is it about Pebble that brings out the very best in your game?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just really enjoy coming here.  I enjoy the courses, they're a lot of fun to play.  This event is a special event.  You get an amateur partner, you play with one other pro and his partner, it's just a lot of fun.  Especially if you have a good partner and you have a good group.  It's a lot of fun out here, especially when the weather is like this, it doesn't get any better.
Q. When you go around the three golf courses what do you continue to learn about this rotation and this week as a whole?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Especially like this week I think it's good to get out and you've got to see each golf course just to see how they're playing because it always -- especially when it's a week like this where the weather's really nice, you got to see how the golf courses are playing.  Usually generally it's really soft and cold and wet.  But this year the ball's going, the fairways are pretty firm, greens are firm.  So, yeah, I think it's going to be a great week, especially the weather looks really good all week and it's going to be a lot of fun.
Q. Sort of easing in this year, the win at Kapalua, then over in Abu Dhabi, you tied for 9th.  Where are you with your game and where you want to be at this point of the year?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think I'm in a really good place.  The game feels really good.  I got a lot of confidence in it.  I'm looking forward to the rest of this year.
Q. How much did you put in leading into this event?  What was your past week like?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just I was at Sherwood, practiced, played a little bit.  Went over to Vegas and saw Butch and worked on some things, but normal off week.
Q. Does it matter to you that Jon Rahm could have passed you last week for No. 1 if he had won?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I mean it's just how it goes.  I haven't played.  The last tournament I played, I guess on TOUR I won and I played Abu Dhabi.  But he's playing really good right now, so, yeah, I mean if he would have passed me, he would have passed me.  Could have probably got it back this week if I won, so.
Q. Given the fact that a lot of guys are playing well right now, do you feel like that No. 1 spot's going to kind of juggle back and forth the rest of the year?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I can't tell you.  If I keep playing well and keep winning then, no, I'm going to stay No. 1.  But, yeah, I mean if I don't play well, there's a lot of really good players that are playing really well right now.  So it's going to be tough for me to keep it, but if I keep playing like I am and how I should, then, yeah, I'll be there at the end of the year.
Q. Anything you worked on in particular with Butch or just all around?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, just, we didn't work on much, I was swinging pretty good, so just hanging out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT