WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 28, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER: Thank you, Dustin for joining us here, third round leader of the World Golf Championships - HSBC Champions.   
An interesting day, a lot of up-and-downs out there but you come out of the third round with a pretty solid lead.  Talk about heading into tomorrow playing with a lead.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, today was a tough day with the wind.  Felt like I played really, really well.  You know, had a double-bogey on 10 but I actually hit a really good drive right down the right side of the fairway and landed on the cart path and went straight right into the bushes.   
But other than that, it was a really solid day.  I hit a lot of good drives and a lot of good iron shots.  Especially with the windy conditions.   
And yeah, tomorrow, going in, I'm not going to change anything.  Same game plan.  You know, play the golf course just how I've been playing it.   
CHRIS REIMER: Tomorrow you have a chance to win your sixth World Golf Championships event.  What is it about winning these stature of events that's so special?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, these are big events, some of our biggest events we have on TOUR.  Obviously the best players in the world are here.   
It's golf tournaments that I obviously always want to put myself in position to win, which I'm in a good position going into tomorrow.  But I'm still going to have to go out and play a really solid round if I want to get it done.   
 Q.  For the context of the round, the eighth hole seemed like it changed everything.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: For me it was great.  But yeah, you know, still even on 8, I was right in the middle of the fairway.  But you know, trying to hit it into that green, I had mud all over my ball.  But it's tough, got the wind off the left and don't really want to miss it right there with the longer carry.  Hit a good shot.  Just mud turned it left but made a nice up-and-down.   
Yeah, it was obviously a pretty big change there.  I mean, it was a four-shot swing between me and Brooks.  But yeah, I mean, it was definitely a turning point in the round for me to take the lead or get a bigger lead.   
 Q.  Did you also get on 6 in two?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes, I did.   
 Q.  If I can be a bit nosey, what did you say to Brooks afterwards, or were you not chatting much?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: After what?   
 Q.  At the end of the round.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, at the end of the round.  I don't even know.  No, we weren't really talking.  It was at the end of the round, you know, nice going, good luck tomorrow, kind of thing.   
 Q.  So the 18th, you're the longest hitter on the Tour, and on 18, you choose to lay up.  Is that the reason why you have a five-shot cushion, or is that your game plan?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously I had a nice lead there, but it just was a shot that I felt like with the flag location, if I just laid up in the fairway, I'm going to have a really good look at birdie, which I did.  I didn't make the putt, but you know, it was just on the downslope.  I was kind of right in-between clubs.  I was in between a 4-iron and a 3-iron.  I just didn't really like the shot.   
If I would have been five yards further down in the flat, I would have gone for it for sure.   
 Q.  Please be good enough to summarise your approach when you go into a last round with a good lead.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, for me, I'm not going to change anything.  I feel like I've got a good game plan for the golf course.  You know, I'm going to play it just like I did today.  I mean, I think the wind is going to be out of the same direction.  Might be blowing a little bit harder.   
But as far as, you know, tee shots and approaches to the green, I mean, I'm going to try to do exactly what I did today.   
 Q.  But Brooks yesterday talked about you beating each other's butts; are you noticing less what he does, or not?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I mean, when we're on the golf course, I'm not worried about what anyone else is doing.  I've got enough to worry about with just myself.  So it kind of tough to worry about what anyone else is doing.   
But yeah, tomorrow, I'm not going to change my game plan playing no matter what Brooks does, Henrik, whoever is out there playing.  I'm going to stick to it and hopefully execute.   
 Q.  Which way would you enjoy to win at the end:  To win by one in a tight race or to win by a large margin, which probably you will if you take a very solid lead after the front nine tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I would much rather win by a large margin, any day.   
 Q.  What club did you hit on 16?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: 3-iron.   
 Q.  And has there been any shot today or this week that you would consider high-risk?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I don't think so.   
 Q.  Is there a shot on the course that's like that?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: High-risk?  I mean, it just all depends on the situation.  Maybe like No. 8, trying to hit a 3-wood in there.  Probably not a great idea.   
Or, you know, probably 18 a little bit for me.  I was standing there, I could have hit a 4-iron or 3-iron there left of the green, but I still would have had a fairly it up pitch to get it close, where I felt like if I laid it up in the fairway, I was going to have a good look no matter what.  So that was probably a high-risk shot maybe.   
CHRIS REIMER: Great round today and good luck tomorrow.  Thanks for being here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT