DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66, but your three-ball, 15-under in tough conditions.  Was it trying to get in the slipstream of Justin today?  Was that the key?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like I played really solid there the first 13 holes.  Had a lot of good looks and hit a lot of really good putts.  I didn't feel like I ever hit a bad putt, and just burned the edge, it felt like, on every single hole.   
Finally rolled one there on 14.  But yeah, Justin played really solid all day long.  I was watching him roll his putts in.  My putts weren't rolling in.   
I got a little better there at the end.  The putt on 14, it was a really tough read.  I felt like I was close to the hole but had really tough reads.  That one was fairly easy, that little chip.  Then made a nice putt on 15, as well.   
 Q.  Talk us through it.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I had a good line on it I felt like.  The whole way it looked pretty good, once it got about ten feet from the hole.  I was going to be really upset if it didn't go in.   
 Q.  Seeing how Justin was going along and how he kept moving forwards, was there a sense as you came to your last hole and delivered a superb wedge shot in there, was there a sense you needed one more to get a bit closer?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I did.  Obviously I knew he was -- he hit it just over.  I needed to make a four just so I could get within a couple, which I am, which three back going into the last day, it's within reach, for sure.  The weather's supposed to be pretty good tomorrow, so I'm going to have to go out and get off to a good start.   
 Q.  Obviously a lot of the attention on Justin Thomas today, but you made a few noises yourself.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, Justin, he played very well.  Putted really nicely.  He made some really nice putts.  Obviously I caught a little of that fire at the end and made some birdies, birdieing four of my last five, and even on 17 was probably my closest look that I had and didn't hit a good putt there.  Just burned the low side of the hole.   
All in all, it's a really solid day I felt like.  Even the first 13 holes, I had good looks on pretty much every hole.  Just hit good putts.  Just wasn't going in the hole.  I was just burning the edge all day long, and then finally, you know, made a nice one there on 14.   
 Q.  We talked to you on Friday afternoon, in the first round lead, and yesterday, maybe not quite your best stuff.  You're giving yourself a lot of looks right now.  Are you just relying on patience to see them drop?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I played really solid the first day in tough conditions and I played again today in tough conditions, I played solid.  Yesterday was the easiest we had, and I did not play very well, making two doubles and two bogeys, when I shouldn't have made them.  I could have easily made pars on all those holes.  Just made bad bogeys and bad -- the two doubles were really bad.  So it is what it is.  It happened.  But I'm still right there.  I need to go out tomorrow and shoot a good number and try to get off to a good start and try to put some pressure on the guys early.   
 Q.  You're leading the FedExCup race, how much is it on your mind going into the last round tomorrow?  Was it really important for you to finish fast to give yourself a chance to win tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just wanted to get myself in a position where I'm at least in range of the leaders.  You know, what that's going to be at the end of the day, I don't know.  12 is about what I thought would be leading starting the day, so I knew I needed to get -- I would have liked to got to double digits, but you know, I still feel like I'm in -- three shots back right now, I don't know what I'll be at the end of the day, but that's not too far ahead.  I just need to get off to a really good, solid start tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT