WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2021
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you assess your match?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it was a tough match.  Like I said, I felt like I played solid, didn't play great, but played really solid.  Felt like I hit a lot of good shots and holed a couple long putts, but other than that I didn't really make much.  Hit a lot of really good putts that I thought had a chance to go in.
 All in all, it was a really solid day.  Obviously Adam played well, too.  It was a tough match.
 Q. Even though you didn't make some of those putts you feel good about your putting?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I feel like I'm rolling it well, just under-reading a few times.  Just got to get the reads a little better, but feel like I'm rolling it really good.
 Q. You've had an up-and-down kind of relationship with this championship.  You've won here in this format but then you also haven't gotten out -- how key is winning this match to going forward?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it's definitely key getting off to a good start.  Winning your first match definitely helps.  But you've still got to go pretty much win all three matches if you want to advance.
 Yeah, I mean, obviously I've got another tough match again tomorrow.  I'm going to have to play well if I want to win.  I mean, I kind of like the old format where the first round if you win or lose you go home or stay.
 But I like this golf course, and yeah, like you said, I've done well around here.
 Q. Match play, particularly this format, does each match feel kind of like a Sunday final round back nine?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, yeah, match play is.  You know you need to win if you want to stay here for the weekend.
 Q. What do you know about your opponent tomorrow, Robert MacIntyre?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I think I've played once with him.  Yeah, he's left-handed.  I know he's a good player.  I don't know him that well, but it'll be a good match.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT