THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK WILLIAMS: We welcome Dustin Johnson here to The Northern Trust.  You're No. 4 in the FedExCup standings comes into the first Playoff event this season.  You were a winner in this event in 2011 at Plainfield, one of four Top 10s you've had in this event.  If you can talk about the golf course first and what you like about it.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think the golf course is really good.  It's in perfect condition.  You know, I think it's going to play pretty tough.  Fairways are generous but you have to hit the fairways.  The rough's pretty gnarly out there.  It's a really good golf course and good condition.  I really like the golf course.  First time seeing it today.  I'm a big fan.
MARK WILLIAMS: You've had two victories this year including two World Golf Championships titles.  What would it mean to add another FedExCup title?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously the Playoffs, they are big events.  You know, this is the first one, so you know, if I could obviously win it here, it would probably move me to No. 1.  You know, it would keep me in that top five going into Atlanta.
You know, that's kind of the goal is to be in that top five going into Atlanta.
Q. You said at the PGA, your health is getting there.  How are you feeling and what have you done to help you prepare?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, last week, I was in the Bahamas all week (laughter) so I didn't do anything, actually.  I feel great.  So I think I needed a week off, you know, to kind of recharge and -- but yeah, it was a great week off.  It was one that was needed.  I'm feeling really good coming into this week.  I'm recharged and ready to go.
Did a little bit of practice yesterday and then obviously today.  So I'll go back and I'll practice a little bit this afternoon, but yeah, I mean, the golf swing feels good.  I feel comfortable out there.  So I'm looking forward to this week.
Q. When you come to a new venue like this, how does your week of preparation differ and what do you do to accomplish your goals for the week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, obviously the golf course -- the golf course, pretty much it's right in front of you.  Our yardage books are pretty good nowadays.  So we can kind of figure out a golf course without even seeing it.  But to get one round in today was nice.  That was -- I played 18 holes out here.
But preparation mostly is chipping and putting around the greens, just getting a good feel for the speed and working on the short game, chipping and putting around them.
Q. Is there any extra sort of desire or will given how well you played last year but didn't quite get that last hurdle that you wanted?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  I mean, I feel like the golf game's in good form right now.  It's really close to being really good.  So you know, I've just got to keep working at it.  It will come around.
Q. I guess how important are the Playoffs in your mind in terms of this season?  Like you said you had the lost window there amongst the majors, but you had such a great start.  If you have a massive finish here, will you feel much better, if you will?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, any time you play good golf, you feel better.  So yeah, I'm looking for a really good finish to the year.  Obviously at the end, I'd like to be the FedExCup Champion.  That's a goal of mine right now.  We've got four big tournaments coming up, and so I need to play well in all four.
Q. Could you be Player of the Year if you did that?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Maybe.  We'll see.
Q. It's a big week for everyone; Justin Thomas, he's where you were last year after the U.S. Open.  What's it like playing the first event after becoming a Major Champion?  Do you still have the adrenaline?  What does that feel like?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It feels good.  Obviously you're coming off of winning a major, so the golf game is in really good form.  You know, you just want to kind of keep it going.  But I mean, I think I won my next tournament after winning the U.S. Open, so it was -- it feels good.  Obviously especially to get that first win for me was a big deal, just because I had been so close so many times.
So it kind of propelled me into where I'm at now.  Kind of just kept it going.  And it's still -- the golf game still feels really good.  It's just really close -- I had not been scoring that well the last few weeks, but you know, I feel like it's in good form.
Q. You just mentioned you want to become FedExCup Champion obviously but right now Hideki Matsuyama is in first place, and you have to chase him.  What do you think of Hideki's strength?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Hideki is just a really good, all-around player.  He drives it really straight.  He hits it pretty far, and I mean, he does everything pretty well.  It adds up to being a good player.
Q. Given obviously how massively well you were playing earlier in the year with the three wins, and you were just clearly streets above everybody else, and now you're still at the top of the world, do you feel, though, that you're almost becoming a little of this weird, forgotten man amongst what J.T. and Jordan and all those guys have been doing?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm just fine flying under the radar.  That's all right.  (Smiling).
Q. Do you think it's strange that the best player in the world is legitimately under the radar right now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know.  That's for you guys to figure out.  For me, it's just fine.
MARK WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT