PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How are you feeling coming off after the final rounds of the final major?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Okay, I guess.  I mean, I was obviously today was a little bit better.  I felt like I played about like I did today all week.  Just I putted just a little bit better.  Made the shorter putts.  That was the key for me today and all the other days.  If I had putted halfway decent the first few days then I never shoot over par, at least.  I'm right there in the tournament for sure.
Q. Rory was talking about his frustration in the majors.  Where do you stand?  Do you share a similar feeling?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Definitely a little frustrated for sure.  Because going into Augusta I'm playing the best golf of my career.  Everything is working very well, and then unfortunately I didn't get to play the Masters and then just struggled a little bit this whole summer.  It's all due to what happened right before Augusta, slipping and hurting my back.
But I feel like the game is coming around.  It's starting to feel a lot better.  Got confidence in it.  Definitely rolled the putter a little bit better today.  It's close to being really good.  It's close to being really good.
Q. Did the back ever get to be 100 percent?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's fine.  I can still feel it a little bit.  No pain or anything like that.  Still just a little bit tight.  It's not injured.  I just need to keep working on stretching it.
Q. How different is the course playing today than the first three rounds?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's pretty soft today.  I felt like they set it up fairly, you know, not easy.  This course isn't easy.  Compared to the first three days, the pins are a little bit nicer and the course is playing soft.  I guess we got some rain last night.  The greens weren't too fast.  I thought the setup today was definitely favorable.
Q. When are you playing next?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The first playoff event.
Q. Did you keep the same putter in the bag today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Absolutely.
Q. It worked a little better?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just hit better putts today.
Q. Do you need to take some time as well to get fully healthy at some point?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  But I'm definitely looking forward to having a week off next week, absolutely.
Q. You have got the playoffs ahead coming up.  Beyond that the Presidents Cup.  What is your perspective?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I have got a big couple -- next six weeks are big.  The four playoff events and Presidents Cup.  I enjoy playing Presidents Cup.  I'm looking forward to it.  I need to take a few days to relax and then it's time to get back at it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT