THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit a lot of greens, hit a lot of fairways.  I felt like it was a really solid day.  Obviously the one bogey on 2, I hit it right of the green and hit a good shot in there.  Hit my first putt a little too hard and I just 3-putted there.   
Other than that, I felt like my speed was really good all day.  I didn't really make anything wrong, but I hit it really close all day today, so that was nice.  It was pretty stress-free.   
 Q.  You mentioned putting, we noticed a different piece of equipment in your hand.  Why the change?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just felt like my touch was a little bit off with the other one.  I was rolling it fine.  I switched last year at BMW, but I went back to it.  It's a copy of the putter I was playing.  It's a prototype TaylorMade I'm putting with now.  It's good.  It's the same feel.  I don't know, I practiced with it the last couple days.  I was rolling it pretty good.  It rolled pretty well today.  I'm happy with it.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on how you played today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I played really well.  I drove it well.  Hit my irons really good.  Felt like I was in control all day.  Hitting them solid.  Hitting the shots I wanted to hit.  Hitting it where I wanted to.  You know, even the bogey I made on 2, I hit a great shot in there right in the middle of the green where I wanted to it hit it and I 3-putted.   
After that, my speed got a little better.  I settled in a little bit.  I hit a lot of great shots, and you know, holed some decent putts.  Nothing too major.  But felt like I just played really solid all day long.   
 Q.  A couple of putts, an 8-footer and an 11-footer on the back nine you missed.  This round could have been even better.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit it really well.  I'm very happy with what I shot.  Obviously I hit it really close a few times today and I could have made them.  I'm happy with the way I played, the way I hit it, the way I drove it.  I did everything really well today.   
 Q.  You said yesterday leading in, you're a big fan of this golf course.  Even though you've only seen it for like 24 hours, does that remain the case here after the first day?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, if I keep hitting it like that I am; I like it a lot.  You've got to drive it in the fairway.  That's the big key.  The rough is really brutal.  But the fairways are wide.  So you've just got to hit it in the fairway and you know you can kind of attack the golf course.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT