RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under 68 but it could have been a lot lower.  How do you assess this round?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I played really good on the front nine.  Obviously a little bit of a hiccup there on 11 and 17.  But overall, the end of the day, playing solid.  I feel like the game's starting to come back in good form, other than a drive here and there, it was a really good day.
Q. Let's start here on the ninth, this from 144 yards out.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's just a perfect little pitching wedge from 145.  Hit a nice shot in there.  I feel like I'm swinging really good.  Tomorrow I need to go out, maybe hole a few more putts and I can shoot a low number.
Q. That was to get to 5-under on your round, and we talked about that hiccup briefly.  What happened here on 11?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, my drive actually wasn't that bad.  It landed on the cart path and went all the way to the trees.  Hit it a little fat.
Q. And this for a 16 eagle attempt.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I hit two really good shots in there.  I hit a really good putt.  Just didn't turn.  Obviously hit a really nice wedge shot here on 18.  I just miss-read the putt.  I had it breaking a little right-to-left and it actually went left-to-right.
Q. When you know you have to capitalize on par 5s, especially here at Glen Abbey, do you feel a little bit more pressure, especially as a big hitter, like you're almost expected to eagle and birdie all those?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, just for myself, I feel like I can reach all of them.  So I need to make fours.  Obviously on 18, I drove it just in the rough there.
Still had a great look at birdie.  Just didn't make it.  I had quite a few putts today, some short ones I missed.  I feel like I'm rolling it well.
Q. Just two little blips?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, definitely played a really solid front nine.  Missed a short one there on 5.  Had a couple 15-footers that burned the edges on the front and then kind of the same thing on the back.  Obviously the double on 11 kind of hurt a little bit.
Still hit some really good shots and some great putts, and just nothing went in on the back nine.  I felt like I'm playing really well, and it's really close to being very good.
Q. Keep getting better each round, do you feel?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the golf swing's there.  I feel like I'm definitely striking the irons ten times better than I was the last couple months.  I'm finally starting to feel like it's getting back to where it was and I'm hitting really good golf shots, hitting solid and controlling the ball a lot.
You know, just got to see some putts go in and hit a few more fairways, and I can maybe give them a run tomorrow.
Q. Seeing a 62, some low scores out there the last couple of rounds.  Do you have one of those in you tomorrow?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, absolutely.  Absolutely.
Q. Your second on 11?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just a terrible shot.  I was trying to hit a low one and it came out straight up in the air.
Q. The chip on 13, did you think that was going in or were you happy it hit the pin and stopped?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I didn't care either way.  It was nice to have a tap-in four, but yeah, it definitely could have gone in.  Just like the one on 1 could have gone in, too.
But tap-ins, I'm always happy with.
Q. You and Chez seemed to be talking quite a bit.  Did you guys talk golf?  Are you guys friendly?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I've played with Chez quite a few times.  He's a buddy.  I like Chez.  He's a nice player.  We were obviously enjoying the day, beautiful weather and a good day to play golf.
Q. Certainly not your most spectacular round but you found a way to work up the leaderboard and put yourself in contention on Sunday.  You said it felt like you shot an 80 out there.  Why was that?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: When you turn in 30 and I'm playing just solid, really good golf, obviously go to 11 and make double, that kind of -- that derails you a little bit.  But then I hit some really good shots and just lipped-out a few putts there on the back nine.  Had a lot of good opportunities.
I ended up shooting 1-over on the back, which is not a very good score.
Q. Along the lines of putting, yesterday you told me you felt like you were putting well but you just weren't seeing things drop.  Going into Sunday, what are you going to correct?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel like I'm rolling it good and I'm putting well.  Obviously I have to read the greens a little bit better.  I feel like I've got a good feel for them.  It's just I'm burning the edges right now.
Q. Knowing that there is chance for a low score, we saw a 62 earlier today, what do you have to do come Sunday?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: If I just keep playing like I am, I've got a really low score in me.  I just need to go out, get off to a good start like I did today and hopefully I can finish it off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT