RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 30, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the day you wanted but any positives you take away from today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The golf game is there.  I'm really hitting it well.  Feel like I'm driving it better today a little bit.  I hit a lot of really good putts that didn't go in the hole.  I had a lot of looks today, and it's definitely positive.  The golf game is moving in the right direction.  I felt like I played really good every day this week.  I hit really good putts.  Just they weren't going in the hole.   
 Q.  Let's take a look.  This is at the second.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: 6-iron, 194, out of the right, hit a great shot from there.   
Here, I had a nice look at eagle.  Hit a good putt but left it short right in the middle.   
6, this is the only putt I made all day, the hardest one, 30-footer like dead straight.  Somehow it went in.   
Hit a great drive down the middle, a little 9-iron to six feet right beside the hole.  That was probably the easiest one.   
 Q.  Monster drive on 18.  You almost drove it in the water.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just bladed a wedge here.  Again it's looking like it's going to go right in the middle and then turns left right there at the end.   
 Q.  Two big tournaments coming up.  You must feel confident going into next week, the WGC event, and then the last major?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I really feel comfortable over the golf ball right now.  Hitting my irons good and hitting good wedge shots.  Yeah, I'm really looking forward to the next two weeks.   
 Q.  How satisfied are you with your Sunday play?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, obviously not real satisfied with the score because I hit it a lot better than my score.  I just hit a lot of good putts that just didn't go in the hole.  But I really feel like the game is in good form.  I feel like I played well every day here.  Just didn't hole enough putts.  Hit a lot of really good putts that just missed.   
So I've really got a lot of positive things going into the next couple weeks.  Got two big weeks ahead of me next week defending at the WGC, and obviously the PGA Championship.  The game is in good form.  I just need to tighten up the putter a little bit.   
 Q.  Going into those two big events, all week long you've been talking about getting your confidence back to the form you wanted to be at.  How much progress do you feel like you've made this week?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, a lot.  I feel definitely a lot more confident over the golf ball.  I'm hitting the shots that I wanted to hit and I felt like I controlled my distance very well.  Hitting all my shots solid.  Hitting them close to the holes.  Just like I said, I've got to roll in some putts.   
 Q.  This is not an easy stretch for traveling.  As you mentioned, you're going to be defending next week.  What is that like going from place to place?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, next week's nice, there's no Pro-Am.  So actually I'm going home tonight.  I'll be home till Wednesday.  I'll go up to Akron on Wednesday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT