RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've put yourself into a good spot heading into the weekend.  You hit 16 of 18 greens today.  What did you like best about your play today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm hitting the ball good.  I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in the hole.  I still feel really good with the putter.  I feel like I'm rolling it well.  I had a bunch of lipouts today but the golf course played a little bit tougher with the wind.  But yeah, I'm in a good position going into the weekend.   
 Q.  What did you have to adjust in the first two rounds, going from links golf on this course, and it's definitely a lot softer than in years past?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, this year is definitely a lot softer than last year.  Obviously flying the ball -- you can stop it where you're playing it to.  You're just adjusting to yardages.   
 Q.  You mentioned at the beginning of the week that you are just so close to getting to that perfect form that you had for those three wins in a row earlier in the season.  Mentally, you're still trying to get there.  How would you assess where you're at today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's really close.  The golf swing feels a lot better.  I'm starting to hit a lot of good shots, a lot more consistent ball flight.  It's definitely moving in the right direction.   
 Q.  Putter seems to be working still.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's okay.  I hit a lot of good putts today.  Just hit the hole a bunch and it didn't go in.  But yeah, I played solid today.  Hit a lot of good shots.  Kept it in play off the tee.  Didn't drive it great but kept it in play.   
And then like I said, I hit a lot of good shots today.  The irons feel really good.  I'm driving it okay, and so I just need to roll in some more putts.  But I feel like I'm hitting really good putts.  They just didn't go in the hole today.   
 Q.  Was the driver better today than yesterday?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: A little bit.  A little bit better.  It's getting there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT