RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Clean front and eventful on the back side; how would you sum that day up?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm playing good.  Just had a few putts lip out on the back, and then you know, just didn't drive it well the back nine.  That was the key.   
But when I did drive it in the fairway, I had good holes.  You know, I'm swinging really well, especially with the irons.  You know, so I've just got to get the driver in the fairway and I mean, still, 5-under is a good score.  But it definitely could have been a lot better.  I feel like I'm rolling it really well.  You know, I've just got to hit the fairways.   
 Q.  Is this course about as gettable as you've seen it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, the greens are good, and it's soft.  So you know, for me, it's just get it -- even if it's in the rough and I've got a shot at the green, I'm fine.  I hit a few bad shots off the tee, but other than that, I mean, it was a good day.  I feel like my irons, my iron play is really good and I'm putting really well.   
Tomorrow I just need to go out in the morning and hit a few more fairways.   
 Q.  Is this as close as you've felt to being good since the Masters?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, the golf swing feels back to where it should be.  I'm hitting the shots that I want to with irons, and that's the thing that's been struggling for me is my iron play.  So I feel like I've got that back.  I feel like I'm swinging really well yesterday, today.  Hopefully I can keep it going.   
 Q.  That shot on 10, the ruling you had to get, a little Spieth moment there.  What kind of relief did you have to get?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it was just a tent.  It would have been fine if I could have moved the car.   
 Q.  Couldn't get the people to help you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, they tried to find the person whose car it was, but of course every car in the parking lot moved, except for that one.  But I would have had a clear shot right at the green.  It is what it is.  It's a day I definitely left quite a few shots out there, but you know, I need to go out and be aggressive in the morning, roll in some putts and we'll get right back in.   
 Q.  It's a positive day for you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes, absolutely.   
 Q.  Did the weather impact you at all, the weather delay?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's not going to change.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT