THE 146TH OPEN
July 22, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Today with the conditions the course is soft and not much wind.  You need to play well.  And fortunately I hit some really good shots today, a lot better than I have the last couple of days.  And shot a really good score.   
 Q.  Even in his press conference Branden was saying, "I don't know how long my record is going to last because Dustin is out there and has a good round going."  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean obviously on 16 -- well, I just left it short from eight feet or something.  And then 17 I was right in the middle of the fairway there and made par.  Definitely a couple of shots there on the last couple of holes.   
But other than that it was really solid.  I'm really pleased with the way I played.  I didn't hole any putts but I hit it really well, which I'm very, very pleased with, especially with the way I struck it the last couple of days.  And even the last few weeks.  It was nice to hit some good shots.   
 Q.  Of all your rounds in the British Open where does this round sit?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was good.  But like I said, the conditions are pretty benign out there, with the greens being soft, the course is soft.  You hit good shots, you get rewarded.   
 Q.  Do you think, I need to shoot 63 (inaudible.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, I know I needed to shoot low today, but I don't ever say, well, I'm going to shoot 64.  I just try to shoot as low as I can, whatever number that is.  That's what I'm trying to shoot.   
 Q.  Could you be more aggressive out here today with the conditions or do you still have to think your way around?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean you definitely still have to think your way around, but definitely coming into the greens, you could be more aggressive because they're more receptive.  So you could be a little more aggressive with your lines and going at flags that you might not normally be able to.   
 Q.  The conditions were very different today but you said you didn't play too well (inaudible.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I just wasn't striking the ball well the first two days.  I mean, I struck it very poorly, wasn't hitting it solid.  Wasn't controlling the ball.  It was just not very good.  And my short game was very good the first two days.  I got up and down from everywhere.  And tough shots, too.  But my iron play was horrendous.  Even in the wind conditions, that doesn't matter.  You're going to hit some balls into some funny spots just because of how windy it was yesterday.  But I just wasn't striking it well.   
I like those kind of conditions.  I enjoy it.  But if you're hitting it solid you can play in those conditions.  When you're not, you're scrambling, like I did I think I hit four greens yesterday.  I don't know if I've ever had a round where I only hit four greens.  It was just bad.   
But came back today and played a really solid round, hit a lot of great shots.  So obviously got a little momentum going into tomorrow and see if I can keep it rolling.   
 Q.  When did you feel like, this is different?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, on the first hole I hit the shot I wanted to.  On the range, my warm-up session this morning I was hitting everything.  I was hitting solid and controlling the ball, hitting the flights I wanted to.  I felt like it was going to be a good day just from the range session.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit it a lot more than yesterday.  I don't think I hit the first four.  I have no idea.  But I definitely hit -- I don't know.  I hit most of them.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: You never know what's going to happen tomorrow.  But I figure -- who knows what the lead's going to be at the end of the day today.  But I'm going to need to shoot probably 9-under, I would imagine.  To get to 12, I think that would be a decent number to sit in the clubhouse at.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: That's about -- I'm just going to go out tomorrow and play as good as I can and try to post another good score.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean especially since I've struggled the last little bit.  I've watched a lot of video in of my play in LA and Mexico and match play just to see if I can notice anything that I'm doing then with my swing compared to now.  But I think I figured it out today, so we'll see.  We'll see tomorrow.  I'll let you know after I'm done.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT