AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 18, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Dustin, you drove the ball unbelievably.  You putted great.  The up and downs at 13, 17, how about just those two alone but the one at the par 4 where you got it up and down out of the back bunker, my goodness.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  I made some good up and downs but like on 14 there I hit three really good shots and I had a five footer for par.  I mean I hit a perfect drive right down the middle.  I hit an 8 right at the flag.  Just a really tough day.  I mean I felt like I hit a lot of good shots and ended up in really bad spots due to the wind conditions, blowing really hard and it's gusty, you know, which made it tough, made it tough to judge the distance, made it tough putting, made it tough all around.   
 Q.  On 18 on my call there's no way you can take spin off a 125 wedge shot into the wind.  You got to like blade an 8-iron.  You don't want to do that.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit a lot better tee ball than that.  I didn't think there was anyway of getting it into the bunker, you know, with the wind and off to the left.   
But, you know, it just rolled in the bunker and I was trying to hit a little, you know, just a little kind of chip 9, little low and drive it back there and when I was over the ball the wind wasn't really blowing and when I hit it got a big gust and came up in front of the green.  Made a really good two-putt.   
 Q.  Thoughts going into tomorrow, 3-under par.  You got to be really happy with the round as gusty as it was today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm happy with 3-under.  I thought it played very difficult.  Hopefully I can get a little calmer in the morning.   
 Q.  Dustin, how good is 3-under in these windy conditions this afternoon?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought it was really good.  I thought the golf course played very difficult with the wind conditions.  I mean it's blowing hard and it's gusty.  So, I thought it was very difficult to judge the wind and, you know, control the ball today.   
I felt like it was a lot of times I hit really good shots that didn't end up in good spots and you know, so I thought it was very difficult but you know my -- I got up and down from some tough spots a few times and, you know, kind of kept my round going and ended up shooting a nice score.   
 Q.  Starting at about 13 or 14 how tough is that stretch of holes coming?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's difficult.  13 straight downwind was -- I thought it was tough to judge, judge there, but once you turn 14, 15, even 16 is not playing very easy straight into the wind, you know, and 17, 18 are obviously playing very difficult.  But I thought the whole golf course played tough today.   
 Q.  You were happy with the way you had been starting to hit the ball entering this week.  I'm assuming that playing this well in these conditions actually probably reasserted those thoughts.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like I hit the ball really well today.  A couple bad shots.  On 10, that was the club slipped out of my hands.  Wasn't really -- I can't really judge that one.   
But, yeah, other than that I felt like I struck the ball nicely, hitting it solid, controlling it pretty well and I'm very happy with the way I played today.   
I'm in a good position going into tomorrow.  Go out tomorrow morning and shoot a good score.   
 Q.  Looked like you were one of only a couple of guys that were part of the afternoon wave that were able to score pretty well.  The wind kicking, was that difficult?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The wind was blowing hard.  It was playing difficult.  It was tough to control the ball in the wind blowing so hard.   
 Q.  You're three shots off the lead.  Do you feel like you're in a better position than --  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know what the score this afternoon is but I don't imagine guys shooting -- it was playing really difficult.   
 Q.  Kind of a rough day for your playing partner, Cody.  Wondering if you played with him before?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I played with him on Sunday last week at Players.  Yeah, he's got a good game.  Today was really tough conditions and, you know, you get out of position a few times and it's tough to make pars around here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT