WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel like I didn't give him any holes except for 10.  I three-putted 10.  It was tough.  The greens got really fast.  The winds were affecting the putts.
Jon played really well.  I just really didn't give him anything.
Q. Three straight PGA Tour starts have ended in victory for you.  How would you characterize the roll you're on right now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I played really well.  Today was really a tough day, a long day, this whole weekend was.  But I'm proud of how I played, the way I stayed in there.  He made birdies on the back nine, but I just couldn't get any putts to drop but I'm proud of the way I played.
Q. It was another really quick start for you and you needed all those five holes that you were up early in the match?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I got off to a really good start.  It played tough this afternoon, I thought.  He hit some great shots around the back nine and made a bunch of birdies.  I just hung tough.  I kept hitting good shots.  I wasn't really -- hitting really good shots, just not getting it really close to the hole.  I had 20, 25-footers, and it was tough to make the putts with the wind.  I finally got one close on 15 and hit a great putt and the wind just took it and missed it left.
Q. Tell me about your strategy on 18 after he hit driver, you lay up with iron off the tee.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just knew hitting driver, like he did a great job and he's still in a bad position.  I knew you had to hit it almost absolutely perfect to keep it on the green.  I figure I'm hitting my wedges pretty well, I'll leave it on the fairway.  Again, the wind just knocked it down and it came up a little bit short, but it was still in good position.
Q. Another World Golf Championship.  It's all going well for you, do you feel that?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It is.  It is.  This was a tough one, though.  It was a tough match today against Jon.  And I didn't really give him anything.  I three-putted 10.  That was about the only hole I gave him.  He played tough.  And it was a long day, played to 18 on both matches today.  It was tough.
Q. Leading up to the Masters, you must be feeling very, very good about your game, and it must be right where you want it, am I right?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's good.  Obviously I've got a lot of confidence in my game.  I feel like I'm driving the ball great.  I could work on the irons a little bit.  But it will be good to work on those next week.  I'm taking a couple of days off.
Q. Just a quick word for Jon?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: He's a great player.  He's got a lot of potential.  He's going to be a great player for a long time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT