WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was a tough match.  I felt like I played really well.  I hit a lot of great putts on the back nine.  I hit the hole on 10, 11, 14, 15, 16.  I mean, I hit great putts, just nothing would go in.  I finally made two putts on 17 and 18 to win the match 1-up.  Man, it was a tough one.
Q. You didn't know that much about Hideto when you finished your match on Saturday afternoon.  You found out he was a good player, and you had just enough in the tank to beat him?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I knew it was going to be a good match.  I played really well, I didn't hit a lot of great putts.  It seemed like it would not go in the hole on the back nine for me.  Hitting good putts with good speed, everything.  That kind of let him back in there.  Made two nice putts on 17 and 18 to win 1-up.
Q. You and Jon Rahm have played so well.  Now you go head-to-head for the championship?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's going to be another tough match.  Hopefully I bring my good stuff and we'll see.
Q. This morning you played like you had done all week.  And then all of a sudden the young Japanese player comes at you.  Describe the match.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it was a tough match.  I didn't feel like I really gave him anything, just hit some great putts that didn't go in the hole there on the back nine, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16.  And we're all square on 17 tee.  But I felt like I played really well.  I drove it well.  I didn't really give any holes away.  He played really well, it was a tough match.
Q. Would I be right in saying that sort of match is just what you needed going into the final?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's the first time I've seen 17 or 18 all week.  But, yeah, I mean, I needed a tough match, because I know the final is going to be a tough one.  Me and Jon both are playing really well.  It's going to be a tough match.
Q. He's a long hitter and you're a long hitter, it's going to be different to see someone like that up next to you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't mind.  As long as I'm in the fairway, I don't care.
Q. Reflections on this morning, please.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought I played pretty solid.  I hit the ball well, drove it well.  I hit a lot of good putts and just on the back nine, they just didn't go in.  I hit the hole a bunch on the back nine, hitting good putts with good speed.  That's what I've got to keep doing, rolling the putter really well and I think I'll be tough to beat this afternoon.
Q. Is it good to get a match going to 18?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I didn't need it, but I got to play it.  So I came out on top, so that was good.  But, no, I definitely didn't want to go to 18.
Q. Tell us about this afternoon against Jon Rahm.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously he's playing great.  He's a great young player.  It will be a great match.
Q. It looked like you were striking the ball out there well.  The putts just weren't falling?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I was hitting good putts.  It wasn't like I was hitting bad, pulling them or pushing them.  I was hitting good putts with good speed.  There's nothing you can do about that.  I was hitting exactly where I wanted to.  So kind of the match was a lot closer than it should have been.
Q. Jon said in a friendly way and respectful way, he wanted a shot at you again after coming up short in Mexico.  What are you expecting from him?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: He's a young player.  He's a great young player, and he's playing really good right now.  I think it's going to be a really good match.  And just see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT