WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You won three matches, how was it today out there?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was good.  I felt like I played really solid today.  Yeah, I've got no complaints, really.  I felt like I hit the ball really well.
Q. How about your start?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I got off winning the first couple of holes.  I made a nice putt on 1.  And then 2, hit two good shots in there on 2 and made par.
Q. 4-up at this stage and you're still keeping your foot down on the pedal.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Made a nice eagle here on 6.
Q. You're on fire today, really.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Then on 7 I hit a great shot in there to about three feet.
Nice 8-iron, here, the next hole.
Q. And sometimes when you get up very quickly, you've got the big lead, what's that pressure like?  You must be conscious if you let a couple go, the momentum can change and can go other way.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it kind of did.  Jimmy birdied 11 and eagled 12, so he got a couple back again.
I made a nice looking par, here.  Had a really nice shot into the green, I don't know, airmailed the green.
Q. You've won our three matches, you're into the weekend, you're world No. 1, what's not to like about that situation?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'll have a tough match tomorrow, but hopefully we can get a victory.
Q. Same tactics, driver most places and just rip it down there.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm just trying to get in the fairway, whatever club I feel like I have the best shot hitting the fairway, that's what I'm going to hit and attack the golf course.
Q. Early you were six up through the first eight holes and then closed off the match.  Was your play today indicative of not only what we've seen this week, but over the last few months from you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I feel like I'm playing really well.  I never gave him any holes today and played really well.  I never gave any holes away.
I feel like I'm playing really solid.  I feel like every part of my game is working pretty well.
Q. Given how well you're playing, Dustin, and you're ranked No. 1 in the world, I know you respect your opponent, but when you step to the first tee, do you feel like you should win the match?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No matter what ranking I am, I feel like I should win.  But I'm playing well.  But anything can happen in match play.  It's totally different than stroke play.  But I like match play, it's fun and it's exciting to watch.  Yeah, I feel like I've got a little bit of an advantage just because I'm playing really well.
Q. Does your game suit match play, because coming into this event your record was surprisingly a losing record in this?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I think that had to do with the golf course, not match play.  My golf game didn't suit well at Dove Mountain.  Pretty golf course, but I didn't like it.  It didn't suit my game.  So I left on Wednesday a lot.  But, yeah, I mean this golf course I like.  I feel like I've got a really good game plan around here.  And it's a fun golf course to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT