WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We've been talking about this for the last four days, how great you have played.  Did you show just a little bit of humanity for a couple of minutes in the middle of this round?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit some good shots.  I didn't hit that bad of a shot on 11.  I gave him a hole there.  On 10, I missed a short putt.  But other than that I played really solid.  Drove it well, hit some good iron shots, rolled some nice putts.   
Alex was a tough opponent.  I was 3-up at the turn and then lost 10, 11, and 12.  Then came back, birdied 13 and 14 and 16 to win.   
 Q.  Tiger Woods is the only person who has done it seven times.  Nobody has ever won all four WGC events.  You have a chance to make a little bit of history on Sunday here in Austin.  What does something like that mean to you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it's a long way to go.  I still got to make it to the finals first.  It's a lot of golf tomorrow.  Anything can happen.  But I like my chances.  I feel like I'm playing really well.  We'll just have to wait and see.   
 Q.  You are someone who always works on his game.  When you are playing this well and you play 36 today and potentially two matches on Sunday, what do you do from now until you tee it up in the morning?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm going to go rest.  It was a lot of golf today.  Been a long day, got off really early.  Same thing tomorrow, so I will go home and get some rest.   
 Q.  We were all wondering how you would respond after the match was all square through 12 holes.  You responded by winning three of the next four holes.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I didn't really do anything too bad on -- well, 10, I missed a short putt and gave him a hole there.  Then 11, I actually didn't hit that bad of a shot.  Just the wind took it, kind of drifted a little right, caught the rocks, went in the water.  So I gave him a hole there.  And then he made a 40-footer on 12 and got me there.  So I was 3-up at the turn, lost 10, 11 and 12.  Came right back, birdied 13, 14 and 16 to close out the match.   
 Q.  I was impressed with your play at 13.  You were disciplined enough not to hit driver and not take the bait.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, I've played that hole enough now that I like playing it.  My wedge game is good enough.  I feel like I have a better shot hitting a full wedge than I do if I get up there around that green.  It is a severe green if you hit it over it.   
Obviously where he drove it to, which I don't think I could drive it right there where he did, he barely covered the water.  He kept it in the fairway, kind of pin high, which was a really good shot.  I like it from where I was.  I had 90 yards, I hit a good shot in there and made birdie.   
 Q.  What do you know about Hideto Tanihara?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Nothing.   
 Q.  You two will get acquainted on Sunday?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously he's playing really good.  I don't really know him.  Be great to meet him tomorrow.   
 Q.  Match play, you get off to a great start but you never complete it.  Somebody is going to come back and work hard.  Tell us about that match.  It was a roller coaster.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I knew Alex was going to be a tough opponent.  I started off and won the first three holes.  I'm 3 up early.  I lose three holes in a row to start the back nine, 10, 11 and 12.  Then I go back and I win 13, 14 -- or 13, 15 and 16 to close out the match.   
Match play is up and down.  It's always going to be like that.  I feel like I'm in pretty good form right now.  I feel like the golf game is in good shape.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  It's been a long week so far.  People are talking about this record that may happen.  Have you got a long day tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Absolutely.  Anything can happen.  I got to prepare for that morning match to morning and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT