WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5 and 3, good start.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously getting off to a great start there, I birdied the first two holes and then I made par on 3 and 1.  So it was nice to get off early and then continue to play very well.  We both birdied 6.  I birdied 7, 8, and 9.  We both birdied 8, too.  I just played really well.
Q. You might be the best putter from 30 feet in the world.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I make a few of them, I guess.
Q. Boom, straight in there.  No hesitation or anything.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: That was a pretty easy putt.
Q. When you are playing as well as you are --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, that was a nice one.  This was a nice one here, about a 30-footer.  Just pretty straight, kind of went a little right and little left.
Q. What is the Dustin Johnson method for success match play?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Today I didn't make any bogeys, so I didn't give any holes away.  That is the key, try not to give holes away.  I've got to make some birdies out there, especially if I'm driving it well.  I drove it very well today.
I think that's the key in match play is to keep the ball in play and keep looks at birdies and you tend to do pretty well.
Q. How many times did you use the driver?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit a lot of drives, actually.  Hit driver on 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8.
Q. That is a lot.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I get to hit it a pretty good bit.
Q. You are quite good at it.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel like I'm driving it pretty straight right now, so I'm comfortable hitting driver.
Q. How about the fun part of you trying to win --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Got a long way to go, but getting the first match in the books with a win is definitely a head start.
Q. Kind of got up early and then didn't let him get back in.  Talk about your win.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Got off to a great start, birdied 1 and 2 and then win 3 with a par.  We played really solid from there pretty much the whole way around.  Birdied 6, 7, 8, 9.  Wasn't like I was just -- he was giving me holes.  All the holes I won with birdies expect for 3.  It was a good match.  I played really well.
Q. When you get up that early, is that the key to keep on him so he can't crawl back?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, because when you get up real early, you just want to keep the momentum on your side.  You got the momentum so you want to keep it there.  It's just important not to give holes away.  At least if he's going to win a hole, he's going to earn it with birdies or great shots.  You don't want to give him a hole.
Q. A continuation of your great play from Mexico?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel like every part of the game is going pretty good right now.  Hopefully it will keep up.  I will see here this weekend.
Q. Did you hear about Dustin?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I heard he pulled out, his mom.
Q. (Inaudible)?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just kind of kept it going from there.  I made eight birdies and no bogeys.  Pretty good playing through 14 holes.  Webb played pretty well, but I played really good.
Q. You talked about how much you want to put this championship on your résumé.  How different do you feel like you are as a player now entering this championship compared to years past?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel like my game is in really good form coming into this week.  In years past I haven't been too comfortable.  Not too comfortable, just didn't feel like I was playing well coming into the match play.  Right now I feel like I'm playing great, so hopefully this year we'll have a chance to win it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT