TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2020
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









^
Q. How would you characterize your round today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was okay.  I mean, I scored well.  I gave myself a few looks, but I need to hit some more fairways.  That's just the key out here is driving -- if you can drive it in the fairway, you can shoot a good score.
The greens are so good, and the only way to control the golf ball coming into the greens is hitting out of the fairway.
That's the only thing I need to do a little better tomorrow.  It wasn't like I was way off or anything.  Just hit quite a few drives just in the rough, which is no good around here.
Q. Is that a good thing that you're saying, when you characterize your round you're saying it's okay but you shot 3-under and tied for the lead going into the second round?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, absolutely.  Game is in good shape.  Got a lot of confidence in it and swinging well.  So yeah, I'm looking forward to the rest of the week.
Q. Do you feel like you and Jon are kind of pushing each other right now these last couple weeks, at time both playing well, Nos. 1 and 2 had the world?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.  Obviously Jon is a good player, so if I want to win this week I'm going to have to bring my best.
Q. You kind of said this about your driving a little bit the past few weeks.  You need to put the ball in the fairway a little bit more.  What's the key to you doing that?  Is it something in your swing that you just need to work on?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.  Just hit it a little straighter.  It's all me, that's for sure.  You know, but like I said, this golf course, the fairways are narrow.  If you miss it just a little bit, it's not going to go in the fairway.
So tomorrow just get some better lines off the tees and hopefully I can hit a few more fairways.
Q. Last question is just about being the guy that's being chased.  How did it feel starting with a lead in the first round?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it was obviously a little different, but still, it doesn't really matter.  Still got to go out and play golf.  No matter how many I am ahead, I've still got to go out and shoot a good score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT