ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All things considered, flying over here jet-lagged, changing putters out, the eagle at the last, solo second place.  Does that make the ride home a little better?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was a pretty good week.  Obviously got off to a rough start the first day.   Didn't play very well.  Wasn't feeling that great the first day.  But then obviously I came back and played well Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
Yeah, I'm happy with the golf game.  It's going to keep getting better.  Look forward to next week obviously, Torrey Pines.  Yeah, I'm happy with the way I played and the way I finished.  Obviously made a really bad bogey there on the par 3, 15.  But other than that, it was a pretty solid day.   Didn't really make any putts until the last hole.
Yeah, I'm happy with it.
Q. Considering the run you're on, chasing down No. 1, how do you compress all your thoughts in terms of, is this a good second place finish, or is this one maybe you think about?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I mean, I'm happy.  I'm happy with the way I played.  Obviously yeah, of course I could have played better.  But where I'm at this year, obviously going into next week and with the game, I saw some good things out of the golf game this week.  You know, a few things I need to work on.  But overall, I'm really happy with everything.
Q. Do you go straight to the West Coast?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'll fly back tonight to San Francisco and then I'll go down to L.A. for a day and drive to San Diego on Tuesday.
Q. Thoughts on your week here?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought it was pretty good.  Didn't really make any birdies on the front nine.  If I could have shot 1-under on the front -- had some good lucks.  Just didn't make any putts.  Didn't really make a putt until the 18th, a 20-footer for eagle.
All in all, it was a solid day.  It was windy out there.  It's playing a little bit tougher today.  I felt like I struck the ball well and gave myself plenty of opportunities.  I just didn't roll any putts in.
Q. What do you take from this week, the first week in Abu Dhabi?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I enjoyed it.  Golf course is good.  Hopefully I'll be back next year.  I like the golf course.  I think it sets up well for me now, now that I've played it a few times, get a little more comfortable on it and what lines I need to take off the tee and what clubs to hit.
Obviously I played better, a lot better after the first round.
Q. Did you feel it slipping away; chance at winning was gone?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I knew I had a chance.  I needed to make that putt on 17.  I knew I needed to go 3-3-3 to have a chance.  But obviously Tommy ended up birdieing the last hole.  Obviously that took it out of reach.
You know, all in all, I'm happy with the way I played.  I'm looking forward to next week.
Q. We'll see you back on The European Tour soon?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, hopefully.  I don't know yet.  Probably not until The Open, but hopefully before then.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT