AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 12, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like I was playing really well.  I just had one, I pulled my drive on 6, and then I ended up making bogey on 6.  But other than that, I felt like I played really well on the front, I just didn't make any putts.  I had a lot of great looks on the whole front side and didn't make anything.  And then finally I birdied 10 and made a couple coming in.   
But I still missed some short putts on 14 and 18 that could have helped out a lot.   
But I feel like the game's in really good shape.  I'm happy with the way I finished.  I felt like I still could have played a lot better.  But the game's starting to turn around and I have taken a lot of time off in the off season to get ready to kind of the -- so I could be refreshed and ready to go this year.  So I'm just kind of getting back into it.  I feel like the game's in pretty good shape and for this year and I'm looking forward to the next few weeks.   
 Q.  I know you like Pebble Beach, but man, this place just is really, really special for you, you have fun out here.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I do.  Obviously playing with Wayne, we have a great time out there.  It's a lot of fun this week.  It's a special week, we don't do this, it's only once a year we play a tournament like this, but what a beautiful place when the weather's nice and I felt like I played pretty well this week.  Didn't make as many putts as I would like to, but overall a pretty solid week and I'm not too upset with it.   
 Q.  Isn't it just a mind game this week with all the distractions, not only the weather beautifully delays, but with the amateurs and everything, it's slow, you got to be pretty good mentally this week?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you just know going into it that it's going to be slow, especially we knew the weather was going to be bad, so you just kind of, when the bad weather days you just kind of hold on and you know that eventually you're going to get some good weather and get to play some golf.  But, yeah, that first day was quite interesting.  I hadn't played in weather like that I don't know if ever.  It was pretty tough.   
 Q.  I heard you hit a driver, 3-wood, 4-iron something into a par-5?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, and didn't get there.   
 Q.  Come on.  Really?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, No. 12.  Then the next hole was like a short par-4 and I hit driver, 3-iron.  But it was just cold, windy and raining and it was playing, the golf course was playing very difficult.  But it was a lot of fun and I had a great week.   
 Q.  Heading to Riviera next week?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Absolutely.   
 Q.  It looked like the scores were out there today there were some low scores.  It looked like Jordan's approach was conservative, but the course was there today.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the weather was perfect, not much wind, it was definitely there to take.  I definitely played well enough to shoot really, really low today, but unfortunately I just didn't make enough putts.  I felt like I hit a lot of good ones, they just didn't go in the hole and that's just, it's tough to make them out here on these greens.   
 Q.  Traditionally, over the three courses and so many players the greens get roughed up pretty good.  How did they roll?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it just all depends on -- it was soft, so with this many players on one golf course, it gets a little bumpy around the holes.  But all in all the greens rolled pretty good.   
 Q.  What's the mindset when you're trailing and you're still playing so well?  Just trying to grind and grind?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm just out there just trying to hit shots, practice, try to get more comfortable with my golf swing and look at it the next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT