ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE TODD: Thank you, everyone.  Pleased to be joined by Dustin Johnson.
Dustin, your first time here in Abu Dhabi, so a warm welcome to you.  Just give us your thoughts on being here this week for the first time and how much you're looking forward to the tournament.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously I'm very excited to be here.  HSBC invited me to come play.  All the tournaments I've played in that they do, they do a great job.  I'm excited to come play over here in the Middle East and Abu Dhabi for the first time.
Got to see the golf course yesterday.  It's fantastic and in really good shape.  I'm excited for this week.
STEVE TODD: Seeing Rickie won last year, have you spoken to a few of the guys about the tournament and have they told you how much of a good start to the year it is?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously Rickie is a good buddy of mine and he played over here the last couple years.  So talked to him about it and Rory and all of the guys seem to love the golf course and love coming over here to play.
You know, it was a pretty easy decision for me to come over and play.
Q. There's a general feeling that this golf course suits your kind of play, and that even if it's your first time, you are going to be right up there, which most of the time you do.  But what did you think of the golf course itself?  A long hitter always does well over here in the past.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, so far.  I've played the front nine yesterday, so I like the front nine.  I feel like it's set up well for me.  We'll just have to see.  But I feel like the game is in pretty good shape right now, so I'm looking forward to playing here.
I feel like it's pretty straightforward.  You've got to drive it straight.  That's one of the keys obviously is hitting it straight and I feel like I'm driving it pretty well right now, so hopefully we'll have a good week.
Q. A few of us have just been speaking to The European Tour Chief Executive, Keith Pelley, and he's saying there's going to be music at the driving range at events going forward on The European Tour.  Just wanted to know what your thoughts were on that and it could catch on on the PGA TOUR and if it would work.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously I like it.  If I'm at home playing golf, I always have music playing.  It's something that I think a lot of the guys do.  It's kind of nice.  Keeps you kind of relaxed on the driving range.  Have a little music going, kind of keeps the mood light.  Hopefully it will attract some other people to come out and watch and enjoy the game of golf.
Q. What are your thoughts about Rory pulling out?  Does it cheapen the event a bit, or is it still going to be as hard to win here without him?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, if you look at the field, it's got a great field here, a lot of great players.  Obviously Rory is a great player and no one wanted to see him pull out, including myself.  But things happen and you know, he had to pull out for this week just so he could get healthy and come back and play in a few events from now.
Yeah, I still think it's going to be a great tournament.  It's going to be very tough to win.
Q. Apart from producing music, what aspect of the game have you really looked into in the break season, looking forward to 2017.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I'm not really going to change much from what I did last year.  You know, continue to really work on the wedge game.  I feel like I've still got a lot of room that I can improve there.  And you know, kind of the 150 to 200 range; my proximity to the hole is a little bit down from the years past, so work on that a little bit, too.
Q. How hungry are you to win the world No. 1 ranking?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, obviously that would be a great task and it would be great to get to world No. 1.
My focus is more on each week, each week that I'm playing putting myself in position to win that golf tournament, and I think the world No. 1 will take care of itself.
Q. European Tour have just made some Ryder Cup changes.  Wonder if you know about them and what you think about, they have gone to four captain's picks and change the points.  Does that give the US a psychological advantage going into France?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I didn't know that they changed anything.  I mean, it's still going to be tough to make the team.  But you know, I have no idea if it gives them an advantage or not.
Q. I just wondered, what's a successful 2017 going to be for you?  Have you set down goals?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Not at this point, no.  I kind of keep the same goals:  Continue to try to improve my game and just continue to put myself in positions to win golf tournaments.  You know, try to do that every week, and you know, I think I'll have a successful year.
Q. But you never sort of say to yourself:  I want a major this year, or I want to win a certain amount of events this year; did you ever set goals like that for yourself?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I don't.  I try to just give myself as many opportunities as I can to win.
Q. Has your attitude to the game changed since you won the U.S. Open?  Is there less pressure off you? Do you feel you can free-wheel it?  What's changed?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I might have a little more confidence in myself and my abilities to win after the U.S. Open.  You know, attitude towards the game or how I do things hasn't changed.
Q. Away from the course this week, have you got any plans to explore the city or kind of see the sights?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: If I have time, obviously I'd love to.  But it seems like I've got stuff I've got to do every day.  But yeah, if I have some time, I like to see a few things.  We got to go visit the Mosque yesterday which was absolutely beautiful.  So that was kind of neat to see.
Q. Just going forward, do you think you'll play more events outside the U.S.?  Do you think it helps your game?  Jordan played more last year, maybe for his brand.  But do you think that it will help your game playing abroad more?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I try to play a couple events broad every year.  I'll continue to do that.  You know, depends on with -- I don't know which ones I'll do, but I always try to play a couple each year.
Q. Part of the changes that the European announced today are that you only need four tournaments for membership.  You just said you'd play a couple.  Could you see yourself in the future going to four to become a member of both tours?  It would be easy, wouldn't it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it would be.  I don't know how it would work for me.  I try not to play too many events each year but it's definitely a possibility going forward in the future.
Q. Just away from the golf course, obviously this is your first time here in Abu Dhabi.  What are your first impressions of the capital of the UAE?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: So far I've enjoyed it.   It's been very nice.  The hotel we're staying in is great.  I haven't really seen much other than we travelled -- we got to go over to the Mosque yesterday for a little while.  But yeah, so far what I've seen's been great.
STEVE TODD: Dustin, thanks for joining us and have a good week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT