ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2017
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You came here with very little practice, a little bit rusty.  Is it safe to say the rust is gone after a 64?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I played a little bit better today.  You know, the biggest difference, I drove it better.  I hit a lot more fairways today than I have been.  Holed a few putts.  Still have yet to birdie a par 5, but I did make an eagle on 8 today.  I chipped one in.  But yeah, it was a really solid round.   
 Q.  When is the last time you played a tournament that you had not birdied a par 5 after three rounds?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's been a while.  But you know, I feel like I've given myself some good looks.  Hit the flag on 2 with a wedge shot.  Was heading really close to the hole but hit the pin. I've had a lot of good looks.  Just haven't really holed anything on the par 5s.   
 Q.  Was the change of putter after the first day crucial?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well, it's the putter I've been putting with, I went back to, the Spider.  But yeah, I definitely holed some more putts than I did the first day.   
 Q.  And you're a finally-tuned athlete.  Diet-wise, how careful are you with what you eat?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I try to watch what I eat, but I still go have a cheeseburger and fries every once in a while.   
 Q.  Is that the DJ treat?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Or pizza.  Pizza is always a good treat.   
 Q.  I assume you slept well last night?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, finally.  I got a good night's sleep.  I even got up and went to the gym this morning before I teed off.  Definitely by far the best day I've been feeling out on the golf course.   
You know, just felt the swing, my body, was moving a lot better.  I swung it a lot better, especially with the driver.  I drove it a lot better today.   
 Q.  Understand you might have had some jet-lag issues the night before, getting here 11.40 for a 12.05 tee time.  Is that an example of the level you are at golf tournaments?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I got here in plenty of time to warm up and make it to the tee, so wasn't too stressed.  Today obviously was a lot nicer.  I got a really good range session this morning, and like I was saying, everything was moving better today with a good night's sleep last night.  Today was a really solid day.  Rolled the putter well and had a lot of chances out there and played really solid.   
 Q.  Claude Harmon, your instructor, told me he told you to go out and shoot 64 today.  Guess maybe you should listen to Claude more often.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: We'll see about that.  But yeah, I did go out and shoot 64.  It was a great day today and hopefully we'll just roll that over into tomorrow.   
 Q.  Just to close this out, how important is No. 1 to you?  You committed to San Diego, you're playing there and two more tournaments in California, places you've won.  Is that the next step in your life?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, I need to get the game back to, I've got a lot of confidence right now but it's still not to where I'd like it to be.  So I've still got some work to do.   
But No. 1, it will take care of itself with playing good golf.  That's not the main goal.  The main goal is to go out and put myself in contention and win each tournament that I'm playing.   
 Q.  Apart from the par 5s, is that pretty much as good as it gets?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it was just really solid.  Hit a lot of great shots.  Holed the putts that I was supposed to hole.  Yeah, it was just a really pretty solid day.  Never really was in trouble ever.  I drove it well.  Hit a lot of greens.  I had to get one up-and-down I think on No. 11.  That was maybe the only green I missed all day.  So yeah, I mean, I just hit the ball well today.   
 Q.  How important is a fast start in terms of momentum?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, especially I started eight shots behind, so I know I've got to post a really good score today and I'm going to have to shoot another really good score tomorrow if I want any chance to win this tournament.   
 Q.  What has the new putter brought to the game?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's not new.  It's the putter I've been putting with.  I played a new putter on the first day and it didn't work out so well, so back to the one I've been putting with.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of the conditions out there and what the final groups can expect?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, the wind's picked up a little bit.  It's blowing pretty good.  But the golf course is in perfect shape.  Greens are perfect.  As long as you hit quality golf shots, you can make some birdies.   
 Q.  Tied for the lead at the moment, what do you think that will be at the end of the day?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I have no idea.  Three, four, five back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT