WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 26, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALEX URBAN: We'd like to welcome Dustin Johnson, winner of the World Golf Championships - HSBC Champions in 2013.   
Dustin, talk about what it feels like to be back here in Shanghai, a place where you've won before.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it feels good.  It's a place I really like.  I like the golf course.  I've had a lot of success here and it's a place I look forward to coming to every year.  The game right now is in pretty good shape.  I've had three weeks off, so took a nice little break, but you know, it's good to get back into the mode of tournament golf and I'm excited to be here.   
 Q.  Two-part question, if you can bear with me.  What do you like about the World Golf Championships; secondly, when you went to the Match Play this year, did it ever cross your mind that nobody has won all four of them?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: What do you mean, like all four in a row or just four period?   
 Q.  Period.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I didn't know that.   
 Q.  Next year, I should say.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: But no, I didn't know that.  But the World Golf Championships, they are big tournaments.  I mean, in my mind, they are right up there, probably just behind the majors.  So I don't know, I just always enjoy playing in the big tournaments, good fields.  It's always got the best players in the world, and it's just, I don't know, I've just always liked them.  They are fun tournaments.  They are always at good golf courses and they are great events to be at.   
 Q.  Korea has added one PGA TOUR tournament, as well, and on the other hand, Asia has three PGA TOUR events, as well, so for American players.  Do they have any special thoughts that they might have played more tournaments in autumn or to get into the game?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I think the PGA TOUR is trying to grow the game, especially worldwide.  So adding another big tournament in Korea I think is a big step for the PGA TOUR.  I think it's big for the game of golf.  It definitely brings a lot more excitement for the American players to come over and play here.  We have fans all over the world, so it's nice to get out and play for them.  I'm excited about it.  Whether I'll play or not, I don't know.  I have to look at the schedule for next year.  But it's something that's definitely to be thought about.   
 Q.  Do you remember your first trip to Asia?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I do.  It was USA-Japan team matches.  I went to Tokyo and played at a golf course outside of Tokyo.   
 Q.  Were you in college?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I was in college.   
 Q.  Did you win?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: We won, yes.  It was, I think eight guys and four girls versus Japan, eight guys and four girls.   
Yeah, it was -- we won.   
 Q.  Would you have thought then, that Asia would be kind of a regular stop on your schedule?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, I don't know, at that point, I think I was maybe a sophomore in college.  So I really didn't know what the future held for me at that point.  But yeah, I enjoy coming over and playing, so yeah, it's something that I definitely would have liked to come back and played.   
 Q.  Were you the tallest guy on the team?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I think so.   
 Q.  Can you share your secret, how to get the longest drive?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Swing harder (laughter).   
There's not really a secret.  Just the gym, working out helps.  I think I was just blessed with being tall.  But I do put in a lot of work in the gym to keep my -- to be able to keep my strength and keep my distance.  But as far as a secret, I don't have a secret.   
 Q.  Do you sense that your generation of Americans are more enthusiastic about coming over to Asia than your predecessors?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I really don't know.  But for me, they have big, big tournaments over here, so it's hard not to come over here and play.  It's hard not to want to come over here and play.  So it makes sense for me.   
As far as for them, I can't speak for them.   
 Q.  But what about your friends, are they like that; do they want the same?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, this is a World Golf Championships, so they have got a great field here this week, I think 40 of the Top-50 guys.  So you know, even tournaments in America don't get 40 of the Top-50.   
I think it says something about HSBC.  It says something about this golf tournament.  They do a great job here.  But I think you see more and more guys wanting to come over here and play.   
 Q.  Outside of match play, have you thought about any other formats that golf could use to spice things up or just to be different every now and then?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, maybe a two-man team tournament would be fun.  That's the only other thing I've thought about.   
 Q.  How would you do a two-man team?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know.  I just think it would be fun.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  What about a mixed team, an LPGA player and PGA TOUR player, playing in foursomes, fourballs?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it would be interesting.  I'd be up for playing it.   
ALEX URBAN: Thank you for your time, Dustin.  Good luck this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT