TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Have you ever rooted for anybody else so hard?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I was up in the locker room watching it.  Obviously, I was pulling for Ryan, but still if Ryan would have won and I would have won the FEDEX, it still wouldn't have felt right just because I didn't win the TOUR Championship.  I knew I controlled my own destiny, and it just didn't happen today.  Everything was just a little bit off.
Still a solid week.  Still really confident in my game and looking forward to next week.
Q. D.J., you had eight consecutive rounds in the 60s coming into today's final round.  What was that little bit off?  Can you pinpoint it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's just like every time I hit one down like the edge of the fairway, it would just go in the rough like six inches and have the worst lie ever.  Around here, you've got to hit the fairways.  It's simple.  You know you've got to hit the fairways.  Every time I hit it in the rough, I didn't have even like an okay lie.  It was really bad.  You know, it's tough around here if you do that.
Two, I didn't roll the ball that great today.  I felt like I rolled it okay, but I just didn't make anything, just nothing.
Q. Was it difficult emotionally watching your FedExCup fate being decided in the playoff?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, but it was kind of fun to watch.  Obviously, I was pulling for Ryan, but Rory winning, I mean, he controlled it.  If he wins, he wins it all.  Like I was saying, it wouldn't have felt right if Ryan would have won and I still won the FEDEX.  I would have liked it, but it wouldn't have felt as good as if I'd won the championship.
Q. From here you're going to Minnesota.  Mentally, what does this championship do for you as you head towards the Ryder Cup?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Golf game's in good form.  I'm looking forward to it.  Going into next week, I'm really happy with the game.  Work on a couple things when I get up there, but overall, I feel pretty confident in my golf game right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT