TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First question is just about -- a couple about just this week.  Obviously, it was a good week all the way up until probably a few holes today.  Talk about this week if you could.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously, I played pretty solid all week.  Today just played okay, missed a few drives early, cost me a few bogeys.  But then the drives really didn't cost me as much as it should.  I didn't roll it that good today.  I felt like I hit some good putts.  I just didn't make anything.  I missed quite a few short ones on the front nine, and then on the back nine had a lot of good looks for birdie and didn't make any of them.  I felt like I hit good putts, just didn't make anything.
Q. Looking back then on the year as a whole, still pretty amazing year for you.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Really good year.  I knew coming in this week, if I won, I win the FedExCup.  I kind of -- you know, obviously, I had a chance here at the end.  If Rory didn't win, I would still win, if Ryan or Kevin would have won.  But it honestly wouldn't even have felt as good.
You know, I knew coming in win the TOUR Championship, you win the whole FedExCup.  Obviously, Rory played really great.  So obviously, hats off to him.  He earned it, and he deserves it honestly.
He won the TOUR Championship, and he won the FedExCup.  So it was -- he played great here on the weekend.  I just couldn't get anything going here this weekend.
Q. And talk about the emotions here the last hour or so.  You've been kind of the biggest Ryan Moore fan club.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously, since I had a chance -- if Ryan would have beat Rory in the playoff, I would have had a chance to win the FedExCup, which obviously would have been really cool.  Like I was saying, it didn't feel right because I didn't win the TOUR Championship.  That's why I was here to win.  I knew I controlled my own destiny.
You know what, I had a great year.  I'm very pleased with how I played.  Obviously, we've got our big week next week with the Ryder Cup.  So I'm looking forward to that and looking forward to getting back here next year and get it done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT