BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was such an exciting round of golf.  To lose the lead or at least be tied for the lead and to rally like that and trading birdies back and forth it was just really fun stuff to watch.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it was kind of a battle all day.  I birdied the first hole and then he birdied the two and 3.  I made bogeys on 2 and 3.  And we were tied sitting on 4 tee box.  Three shot lead goes away pretty quickly.
But then I played some pretty good golf from there to the house.  But, he I can't, Paul played awesome too.  We both played really solid.
Q. Trading those eagles back and forth at the 15th.  I think that was the highlight of the week.  After he makes a 25-footer, for you to drop a 18 downhill curler like that I thought it was the highlight of the tournament?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, that was definitely a big -- obviously he got some momentum rolling in that putt first, but I had made one right on top of him.  So yeah it definitely kept my momentum going and it was just a lot of fun out there today.  We both played great.
Q. No. 1 seed at the FedExCup playoffs, No. 1 player in the world it's all out there for you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously we got a big tournament coming up, the TOUR Championship, and it's one I'll be ready for and hopefully I can -- I control my own destiny, if I go over there and win, I win it all.
Q. First time that Dustin Johnson has had a 54-hole lead in 2016, sometimes that lead can be a burden for some players and you had a couple of missteps early, suddenly Paul tied you.  How were you able to recapture yourself and birdie four of the next five and then stretch it out?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I only hit a couple squirrely shots there -- I really actually hit a good shot on 2, it just didn't quite carry far enough.  I was trying to carry it behind the hole and wound up just short and spun all the way to the front.  Then I hit that first putt a little by and lipped out the second one.  It wasn't like I hit a bad putt, I just lipped it out.
Then the same thing on 3.  Kind of pushed my tee shot, hit a pretty good bunker shot and lipped out the par putt.
So it wasn't like I was -- I wasn't upset or anything, I was a little frustrated I lipped them out, but it was nice to make a nice birdie on 4 and then hit two good shots on 5 and made a nice up-and-down.  So, I rolled the ball really nicely today.  That definitely cut me kept me in there and I hit some really nice wedge shots after the first few holes.
Q. WGC event win, a playoff win, and obviously a Major Championship.  How would you describe your season so far with one more left to go?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's pretty good.  It's been pretty good.  I'm pretty happy with it.  I got off, I played really solid all year.  A lot of Top-5's, a lot of Top-10s, a couple wins.  So it's getting better.  So I'm looking forward to the TOUR Championship, the Ryder Cup, and next year.
Q. You may have gained the lead in the Player of the Year raise.  We still have one more event and I want to talk about that event.  You've had a lot of great things happen on your resume but you have not won the FedExCup.  What would that mean if indeed in Atlanta you are holding the FedExCup?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It would definitely mean a lot.  I feel like I played really well this year, I control my own destiny going into it, if I win the tournament, I'll win it all.  That's the goal going into it and that's the only thing I'm going to be focused on and just go out there and play really good golf and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT