BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What made you want to change putters, where you found it and what you liked about it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it's just a Spider.  I messed around with it before, but, no, just I felt like last week and past few weeks I've just been struggling to get the putter on line, like the line that I was seeing.  And so yeah, Sean sent me one of those and I started rolling it and it felt pretty good.  So I putted with it like the last four holes yesterday, because I didn't get it until like late in the round, because it was shipped in.
And then the practice with it this morning was really good, so I kept it going and it rolled really nicely today.  So, I know it works, so if I miss putts, it's not the putter, it's me.
Q. First tournament with it?  You messed around with it, first time using it in a tournament?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well I used the Spider like a mallet Spider like that, I don't know like six years ago one round.  It was Phoenix, last time I played there.  I don't know when it was.
Q. Did you mess around with a bunch of different styles or did you always know you wanted to go with that style?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I always putted with just a Scotty Cameron, like an Anser 2 Scotty Cameron.
Q. But this week did you know you wanted to go to a specific putter or did you test specific ones?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I always putt with that kind of like an Anser-type putter, so I just had Sean make me up one of the short neck Spiders.
Q. Do you have a few putters in the closet?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I got quite a few.
Q. How many?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, I never counted.  But I've got quite a few though.
Q. Today, pleased to get finished?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes, very pleased to get finished.  So that was definitely nice.  I think the group behind me finished, too, so we were one of the last two groups to finish.  But it saves a couple hours of sleep to come back and have to finish one hole.
Q. During the delay were you thinking that this might not finish today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I knew when we started, I knew if the weather stayed nice that we definitely had a really good shot to finish.  Because we were pretty much on 8 tee with three hours to finish 11 holes.  As long as there wasn't a disaster somewhere in front of us, we would be okay.
Q. How firm was it playing before the break and how much did it change?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, the fairways were rolling out pretty good and the greens had a little bounce in them and then obviously, with the rain, no roll in the fairways and the greens were very receptive.
Q. A lot of red numbers on your card, was that pleasing too?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I like making birdies, but I need to drive it a little better tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT