RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 20, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Welcome to the Shaw Media Center here at the RBC Canadian Open.  Your fourth start here, and second here in 2013, also coming off the U.S. Open and leading the FedExCup.  If you could start off by telling us what it's like to be here at Glen Abbey this week where you've had some success on the golf course before?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm excited to be here.  It's a golf course that like you said, last time I did very well here.  I like the golf course.  It's in really good shape.  My game, I feel like it's still in really good shape.  Last week, it was okay.  Especially compared to Phil and Stenson, it was definitely just okay (laughter).
THE MODERATOR: Getting another start here at the RBC Canadian Open between a couple of majors, how useful is that for you to stay fresh and competitive and go into next week with hopefully some momentum from this week.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: For me and my schedule, I do like to play three in a row.  It works well for me.  It works well with just how I do my schedule.  So this year, it worked out, where it was nice, I could play British, Canadian and PGA.  Like I said, I'm excited to be here.
I like the golf course and I feel like I'm playing really well.
Q. How has the adjustment been on the greens going from 9.5 to whatever they are out there?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yesterday I was playing the Pro-Am for RBC, and yeah, the first few putts I hit were way by the hole.  It wasn't even close.
I've adjusted.  It's not hard to adjust back to normal speeds.
Q. How much has becoming a father changed your outlook on life?  We've seen the success we expected you to have in years past, for whatever reason, wasn't there.  You're having a pretty good year and your life really seems to have really changed for the better on so many fronts.  What's been the difference and what are you enjoying the most right now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm definitely enjoying being a father.  Tatum is 1 1/2, so it's been so much fun.  I haven't seen him in like ten days.  Hopefully he's going to come up this week end, so I'll get to see him.  But it's tough to travel over to Scotland and stuff with him.
But it's been great.  That's definitely been probably the biggest thing, and it definitely changes your outlook on things.  Where before, golf was probably my most important thing, and you know, now golf is kind of secondary and family is first.  Yeah, I think that's just been the biggest change.
Q. You're world No. 2, a Major Champion yourself; were you amazed at the quality of golf that was played on Sunday by those two guys?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously they were putting pretty well.  For me, the golf course, I mean you obviously had to hit very good shots.  But if you were driving it in the fairway and you could control your ball, the greens are fairly soft.  So you could get it close to the flags.
Obviously they played very well, but they are also holing putts.  That's where I felt like I didn't hole any putts for four days.  It's tough to shoot good scores if you're not holing putts.
Q. I saw Walter out there.  Do you and him have a relationship at all?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I get to see Walter a couple times a year.  He comes, usually at the fantasy camp, so we get to hang out.  He's always good fun to be around and listen to his stories.
Q. I don't think anybody could -- the reasons why you're not going to Rio, but could you foresee a scenario for the Olympics going back to what we were kind of told what it was, when it was first included in the games in 2009 and 2010.  It just seems like there is a bit of dichotomy between what the campaign was to include it, and what some of the guys, particularly, Zach Johnson said, where it's maybe not as big a deal as we were originally told.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, I feel like it's a big deal.  I feel like it's something I definitely want to be a part of.  Just with some of the risk, it just wasn't worth for me, this year.
I think, what's it, Tokyo in 2020, so I'm definitely going to be wanting to play on that team and go to the Olympics there.  I feel like it's something that I really want to do and I feel like it's important.
Q. With next week being the year's last major, do you take this week to hit shots that you're going to see next week, or is it all about the W?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I've never played the golf course, but I mean, you know, you've still got to hit golf shots, no matter what course you're playing, and generally, I'm going to hit the same kind of shots here as I would next week.  But yeah, I mean, this week's all about trying to put myself in contention on Sunday and hopefully I've got a chance to win.
Q. You seem very relaxed obviously whenever you're out there on the golf course, but what has the win at the U.S. Open, the win at Bridgestone, what has it done for your expectations on the golf course, and has it freed you up, basically, to play your best golf now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, one of the things is especially when I'm teeing it up in a major, I'm not still trying to get that first one.  And I know what it takes; I know I've got what it takes to get it done.  That obviously gives me a lot of confidence when I'm out there playing.
But yeah, I always feel like I'm pretty relaxed out there.  I try to stay positive and enjoy the day.  Sometimes I don't, but most of the time I do.
But yeah, definitely winning, it's definitely just increased my confidence and maybe even relaxed me even more.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Dustin, for coming in.  We appreciate it and good luck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT