RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A 71 today, but I wanted to look back on the end of your round yesterday, a round of 66.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I played really good.  With the conditions, it was tough.  To finish with a three on 18 was good, especially after I doubled 14.  To finish the way I did was nice.   
 Q.  Opening round 66 and a 71 today.  On the back nine first, a few forgettable holes really.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, just didn't really hit like terrible shots.  Just made about as high as a score as I could after the first four holes.  But came back nicely and played really solid.  The conditions were really difficult.  It's windy.  The greens are firm.  But I played really nicely there for the last 12 holes or so.   
 Q.  Around the turn, obviously birdied 18, and then No. 2, finishes off a hat trick of birdies for you.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I thought I made it.   
 Q.  The look on your face of disappointment that it didn't go in.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, but I'm always happy to make an easy four.   
 Q.  5 and 6, if we take a look at the birdie --  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: This is a good one.  I actually was telling it to go.  Sand wedge from 147, there you go, nice little kick there.   
 Q.  Sat nicely at 7-under.  How happy are you heading into the weekend with the shape of the overall game right now?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like the game is really good.  I'm really happy with my position.  Obviously today I struggled a little bit there to start.  But the game feels really good.  I feel like I'm rolling it really well.   
So I'm looking forward to getting out here tomorrow.   
 Q.  I guess you'll take 1-under at the end of the day, considering the start.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I was 4-over through six holes.  But I knew I had the par 5s to play.  I knew I needed to do something on those holes.  It felt like I played really good from the first couple holes.  I felt like I hit a lot of really good shots and played really nicely.   
 Q.  We in the media like to talk about players maturing and we talk things to death.  Do you yourself feel different about now yourself as a player, being able to handle things like the start today and turn it into a great round of golf?  Have things changed for you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I've got a lot of confidence in my game.  I mean, it wasn't like I -- I didn't feel like I hit bad shots in the first few holes.  Just got in a couple awkward spots.   
I knew I was playing well and I had a lot of confidence in my game.  I wasn't too worried about it.  But I did play really well, though, from about 13 on or 14 on in.   
 Q.  Before we let you go, how dry is it getting out there?  How much drier can this place get before maybe it even crosses the line a little later this afternoon?  It's hot; the wind is up; it's getting pretty bouncy.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's real windy.  The breeze is a little bit -- it's almost like it's a little bit heavier today, so it's affecting the ball a little bit more than it was yesterday.   
And the greens, yeah, they are firm.  You've really got to be careful where you hit it.  Some of downwind holes, you get it too close to the green where you can't stop.  I had trouble on 8 where I was too close and ended up making bogey there and 3-putted.  The conditions are very difficult.  It's really hard to judge the wind.   
 Q.  After that start, 4-over through four holes, pretty good playing today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I definitely turned it around.  Just got off to a really bad start.  I came back and played really nicely from there to the house to get it 2-under for today.  Made bogey from the fairway on 8 which was bad.  My drive actually went a little too far, especially for straight downwind.   
I'm pleased with the way I came back and fought back today.   
 Q.  You talked earlier in the week about how you really like this golf course.  What is it about the golf course you like?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, when it's this windy, the golf course plays difficult.  But I think it sets up well to my eye.  I like the tee shots.  I feel like I can control my ball pretty well.  The greens were perfect.  So if you hit a good one put, they go in.   
 Q.  You've won two times with the beard.  Why have you taken it off?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just thought I'd change things up after last week.   
 Q.  Not the start you wanted this morning, but you managed to turn things around.  What was the key to the turnaround?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I really don't know what happened the first four holes.  Just got off to a bad start.  Hit in a couple awkward spots.  I made some bad bogeys.  But you know, fought back and turned it around, and felt like I played really nicely from 14 on in.   
 Q.  I guess all things considered, are you happy where you are heading into the weekend?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously I'd like to play a little better today.  I felt like I played better than that.  But yeah, I'm happy with my position.  I'm looking forward to getting out there tomorrow.   
 Q.  With the wind conditions out there, is it tougher today than it was yesterday?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I think it was a little tougher today.  The wind today almost feels like it's a little bit heavier.  It's affecting the ball a little bit more, and it's a little bit different direction.  I mean, you've just got to take advantage of the downwind holes and the into-the-wind holes, just try to get looks.   
 Q.  What did you hit into 16 and 18?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit lob-wedge into 16 and sand wedge into 18.   
 Q.  What did you hit off the tee on 18?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Actually my drive hit the tree on the left, or it would have been a little bit further down there.   
 Q.  Difficult start but you bounced back very well, but for you, a lot of the damage, four strokes dropped in three holes around the greens, what caused some of that?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just got in some tough spots.  The greens are firm and fast.  You get in the wrong spot, you just can't get up-and-down.  You know, on 12 or 13, whatever hole it was I made bogey, the par 5, that was just a bad shot.  I wasn't paying attention I guess.  You can't hit it left of the flag there.   
But yeah, I think I was still asleep there through the first four holes, but I finally woke up and played well for the rest of the day.   
 Q.  What went so well when you rattled off six birdies in that stretch to get back to 8-under?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Drive it in the fairway and then from the fairway here, you can get it close to the flags.  But you've got to be in the fairway.  If you're in the rough, it's just so difficult to get it close.  With it so dry, the ball, it's hard to control the golf ball in you're in the rough.   
 Q.  And your outlook for the weekend, is?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's good.  I'm happy with where I'm at.  I think I'm in a good spot.  I just need to come out and get off to a little better start tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT