RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66 here for you.  So many players have struggled with the firmness of the greens, and you were able to bounce it off the flags when you needed to like did you on No. 10.  How were you able to handle conditions that were very firm, very difficult?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I drove it in the fairway a bunch.  That was definitely very helpful.  Yeah, the conditions were tough.  The wind was blowing pretty hard.  I felt like I played really well.  I just made one bad swing on 14, just didn't quite commit to the shot I was hitting.  Then I got a little unlucky for it to go in the water there.   
But other than that, I thought I played really, really nicely all day long.   
 Q.  The drive on 18, leaving yourself 152 or so into the 18th for eagle.  You're making a very hard game look very easy.  How is it feeling for you right now?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: My game feels good.  I've got a lot of confidence in it.  I feel like I'm swinging really well.  I felt like I rolled the ball really nicely with the putter today.  I'm definitely driving the ball nicely.  I've got a lot of confidence in the driver.  I feel like I can hit it in the fairway, so that's a big help.   
 Q.  Pretty awesome 66.  Is it okay to start an interview with wow; is that a question?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Sure, yeah.  It was a good day.  I felt like I played really solid all day.  One bad thing there on 14.  I just kind of pulled it and hit it straight.  Got a little unlucky.  I think it one-hopped over the bunker and then went down just barely in the water there.  Ended up making double.   
But other than that, it was really solid golf all day.  I drove it really nicely and holed a few putts.   
 Q.  When I think of Glen Abbey golf course and how you've got to take advantage of par 5s and be a great driver of the golf ball, I actually think of you.  Does this fit your eye and fit your game the way I feel it does?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I like this golf course.  I think it sets up well for me.  I like it off the tee.  The conditions are really tough right now.  The greens are really firm but they are rolling really nicely.  So if you get some good looks at it, you can hold some putts.   
 Q.  You're going to get to go out early tomorrow, which might be a blessing, because the other half of the draw is going to have to deal with the wind you dealt with today; an opportunity to maybe get some separation in round two?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I need to go out and if I play like I did today, I'm going to shoot another good score.  It's very simple.  Need to keep driving it in the fairway; keep getting looks at birdies.   
 Q.  Seven birdies, an eagle at 18, but talk about the shot on 10 after the bogey on 9 as far as keeping your round on the rails.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The drive, my hand slipped.  Rocked it a little to the right.  But fortunately the pin was way on the left and it was actually a pretty good angle coming in.  Hit a great shot in there.  Made that.   
But yeah, it was a nice birdie.  Bounced back right after a bogey.  Made my first bogey on 9.  Same on 11.  Hit three really good shots on 11.   
 Q.  The hot and dry conditions today, do you think that really plays into your strengths?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the golf course is in great shape.  It's firm and fast.  It's definitely tough to get the ball close to the hole.  You've really got to land the ball on your numbers.  With it being as windy as it was today, it was tough to do that.   
 Q.  Is this the ultimate scenario where you go out in the afternoon, tough conditions, and you know you get to turn around right again tomorrow morning and go out early?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, it's good.  Obviously hopefully I can continue my momentum into tomorrow and keep it rolling.   
 Q.  Do you expect it to play easier in the morning?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'll have to see.  Only way it's going to play easier is if the wind dies down a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT