BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. How would you assess your play out there today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I thought I played really solid today, drove it a little bit better.  Felt like I hit my shots in the right position, other than -- really the only -- 3, early in the day.  I didn't think the ball was going to jump and it jumped and got into the bad spot there.  But other than that, I felt like I controlled the golf ball really well, missed a couple short putts.  Other than that, it was a really solid day, though.
Q. Those two birdies coming in after the bogey on 16 have to feel pretty good.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I missed a short putt.  I hit two really good putts there to make a 4.  I hit actually three really good shots on the par-3 there, hit a nice iron shot from the tee and then two good putts and made a 4.
Q. A little bit of steam coming out of you going to 17?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Not really.  This golf course is tough.  It's going to happen.  It's difficult.  It's hard to get it on the green, and then when you're on the green you've got a difficult putt.  Yeah, I mean, obviously I was a little upset that I three-putted, but you've still got to hit the fairway and hit the green on 17 and 18, and I did.  Obviously 17 was a little bit easier of a putt than 18.  18 was a bonus to roll that one in.
Q. What does it say about your game, about your mentality of how you play golf that you can go out and win at 30-under par last week at the Northern Trust and come here on a very tough golf course, very demanding golf course and be right in the mix and you're even par?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, well, this golf course, it demands very good play, and you've got to put the ball in the right position, and then from there you've got to hit quality golf shots into the greens.  It's a completely different golf course, completely different conditions.  It's firm and fast, and it's a lot of fun to play this kind of golf.  I like it.  It's very difficult, but you've got to stay focused all day long, and you've really got to pick and choose your spots where you can be a little bit aggressive.
Q. Do you like this kind of golf better than last week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, last week was fun, too.  But this week is more of a grind, that's for sure.  Every single hole out here is difficult.  You've got to really be focused on every shot that you hit.
Q. Kevin Kisner said earlier he believes even par could win this golf tournament.  Would you agree with him?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   If the conditions stay like this -- I know the wind is going to switch and blow the other direction.  I haven't played the golf course with that kind of wind.  If the conditions stay firm and fast, yeah, absolutely it could possibly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT