THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was it a battle, and what were the challenges?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I felt like I played really, really well.  Just had two shots on 7 and then on 11 just water got on the face and one kind of knuckled straight and then went in the gorse on 7, had to re-tee, and then same thing on 11, just water.  Just kind of hit it really solid, hit a good shot, and just kind of squirted right and went out of bounds.  Other than that, I played really well all day.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) how tough was it on this course knowing that the rain is coming?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, especially coming down the back nine, those holes are tough whether they're playing into the wind or downwind.  They're still tough.   
Yeah, I mean birdie 15, 16, 17, it was a little bit of a momentum boost.  I felt like I got off to a really good start.  Hit a lot of great shots.  Missed a real shot putt on 1 from about three feet for birdie.  Birdied 2, missed another close one on 3, and then birdied 4.  But I felt like I swung it really well all day.  Hit a lot of great shots, so I'm looking forward to this weekend.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) 15, 16, 17?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, just playing normal.  I mean, I had some -- well, at 16 it was helping, so I could carry the ditch, so that was nice.  Yeah, just still played the golf course like I should have.  I played good all day, really.  It was just two drives that were, I mean, it was from the water.  I made good swings.  I know when I make a bad one, but they were both good swings, just with the water they squirted.  One squirted a little bit left, and the other one went right.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, I made a few.  I made a couple today, actually with a 2-iron.  I hit two bad 2-irons.  Other than that I hit all my shots pretty good.   
 Q.  You always want to think you'll feel different once you have that major and you're on the other side of it.  What's it been like to tee it up the last couple days?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it's been good.  I felt really relaxed.  I felt like my game is in really good shape.  Just yesterday I rolled it really well.  Just nothing went in the hole.  Then today other than the couple short putts I missed.  But other than that, again, I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.   
 Q.  Do you feel any (inaudible)?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, tomorrow I'm going to need to go out and shoot a really good score, for sure.   
 Q.  There are so many elements and things going on.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I know I'll be off pretty early in front of the leader, so just go out and post a number.  I've got 36 holes to see how good I am.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT