THE 145TH OPEN
July 13, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WOODCOCK: I'm very pleased to welcome the 2016 U.S. Open champion, Dustin Johnson to the interview room.   
Dustin, it has obviously been a fantastic few weeks for you since winning at Oakmont and your win at Bridgestone.  How does it feel to have that kind of form coming into this, the Open Championship at Royal Troon.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It feels great.  I felt like I've been playing well all year, so for it to finally pay off and get my first major at the U.S. Open and go out and win again at the WGC was obviously big, and I've got a lot of confidence in the game.  I feel like I've been playing really well.   
MIKE WOODCOCK: And how have you found practise so far at Royal Troon?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's been going good.  The golf course is in great shape.  Unfortunately with the weather it's a little bit soft, but other than that it's playing good.  Obviously it all depends on the wind.  If it gets windy, it's going to play very tough.   
 Q.  Were you checking your odds on the phone there?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  No, I don't know where those are at.   
 Q.  How do you compare your confidence coming into this compared with previous Opens you've played?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I always like coming over here and playing.  I feel like obviously my game is in a little better form this year, hopefully.  But it's still 272 holes and you're going to have to play good golf for all of them.   
 Q.  Obviously, it's totally different winning a major compared to the regular tour.  As a Japanese broadcaster, we are looking forward to seeing our first major champion.  In fact, this year you played with Hideki Matsuyama in the U.S. Open for the first two days.  What did you think about his play?  And also do you think he has a chance to win the British Open this year?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've played with Matsuyama a few times.  He's a great player.  He definitely has a chance, for sure.  It wasn't the first time I played with him, so I think he's a great, great player.   
 Q.  Can you talk us through your strategy for the opening five or six holes here and some of the clubs you've been hitting those balls off the tee on into the greens?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, the only time I've played it is with help on the first five holes.  I hit driver on 1, maybe on 2, just depending, and then on 3 for sure and 4.  But 1, I can drive it up right next to the green and same on 3, I can get it there if it's downwind.  2, I just try to keep it just short of those far bunkers.  So either driver or 3-wood, just depending on the wind.  4 is driver.  If it's helping, it's a driver and a 5-iron.   
 Q.  Can you give us any insight as to how you feel people are approaching you this week now that you're a major champion?  Do you feel differently?  Do you walk that a little bit taller?  Do you expect more from yourself this weekend through?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't expect anymore from myself.  I always expect to come out and perform and to contend.  But I mean, it's definitely a little bit different coming out and not trying to win that first major.  That's the biggest difference is I'm not trying to get my first victory at a major.   
 Q.  To adjust to the links, I believe you played Portmarnock and the Island.  Can you tell me what you thought of those courses hopefully in setting up for this particular course?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I try to come over every year a little bit early.  I usually go to Dublin and hang out and play.  I played Portmarnock probably six or seven times, and Island I've played twice.  They're both great courses and I think it's definitely good preparation to come here.   
 Q.  Just a follow-up to the question we just had here.  Can you explain to us the feeling that you're no longer a major-championship-nearly man now that you are a major champion?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's a good feeling, for sure smile.  But, yeah, like I said, the mindset's just different.  I'm not trying to win the first one.  I already have.  So on Sunday if I'm in contention, just knowing that I can get it done is a big confidence booster coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  You described it as a monkey off your back, didn't you, Oakmont?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I did, for sure.   
 Q.  How's that monkey doing now?  Where have you put him?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: He's good.  He's riding in the bag now (laughing).   
 Q.  The Americans have a very good history here at Troon.  How confident are you feeling given the fact that you've just won the U.S. Open that you can go on and lift the Claret Jug here?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm going to have to play some really good golf to do that, but the game's in good form, and I've got a lot of confidence in it, so we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  I read somewhere on Facebook or some social network that you've been imitating Steve Stricker's swing with Butch Harmon.  Can you maybe confirm this?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, that's not me.  I don't think my swing looks anything like Steve Stricker's.   
 Q.  Well, it was Butch Harmon's brother that posted this a few days ago.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, no.  It didn't come from me.   
 Q.  Is there anything that links courses do to negate your advantages off the tee or just your length in general?  Obviously these first few holes it didn't seem to hurt you, but is there anywhere elsewhere you're neutered a little bit because of the strategy involved?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, links courses are just how they are.  Their defense is the bunker, so for me it's all about just navigating the bunkers.  The roughs are not too bad.  In spots it's very playable, so just knowing where to hit it and not driving it in a bunker, that's the biggest key.  If you can stay out of the bunkers this week, I think you're going to do pretty well.   
 Q.  Just curious what all went into your Olympic decision, and when you made it, did you feel compelled at all to call any of the other Americans who were also deciding at the time?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, we had all been talking.  I had talked to Jordan on Thursday maybe just to see like where he was at and what he was thinking.  But for me it just ultimately came down -- you know, the Tour, they did a great job with providing us all the information and making us feel comfortable and all that kind of stuff.  But for me, it just came down to my family's more important.  So that was the biggest decision for me.  It was all family.  So me and my team just sat down, and I made the decision ultimately.   
 Q.  Would you have played if it were in Tokyo this year?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  I mean, I wanted to go play, but just for me at the end of the day, me and Paulina, we're going to have more kids.  I know the risk is very low, but if something were to happen, I'd never forgive myself for that.   
 Q.  You always seem a very laid-back guy.  You always seem to be on the same kind of level.  Does the level of attention towards you and level of interest in you now that you're a major winner, has that been in any way difficult to manage?  Have you been conscious of it?  Have you had to change your mindset in any way?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I haven't noticed.   
 Q.  Really?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it doesn't bother me at all (smiling).   
 Q.  How have you noticed?  What has been the difference in attention towards you back home for instance?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I get a lot more questions from you guys.  That's about it.   
 Q.  American golfers have dominated the Open Championship at Royal Troon over the last half century or so.  What do you put that down to?  Has there been an extra spring in your step?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, if you look at the winners the last few times, they're all good players, all good putters.  I think that's the big key around here is you have to putt it well.  The greens are rolling good, and they're at a good pace to make a lot of putts, so I think that's the key.  But I mean that's the key in every major.  It has no difference in whether you're playing here or in the U.S.  I mean, one of the big things is you've got to putt it well.   
 Q.  Is there a key trait with American golfers that perhaps suit this course, do you feel at all?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I have no idea.  I mean, I like the golf course.  Obviously they do, too.   
 Q.  Is No. 1 on the radar for you?  No. 1 ranking?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I didn't understand.   
 Q.  Is the World No. 1 ranking on your radar now?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's definitely something I'd like to get to.  I've still got a little ways to go.  Jason's in front of me pretty well, so just got to keep putting myself in position to win golf tournaments and keep getting it done.   
 Q.  Last time I checked you were 9-1 joint favourite to win this week.  How does that tag of favouritism or co-favouritism sit with you?  Are you cool with that?  Is that a positive for you?  Do you get a kick out of that or do you just not care?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Honestly, I don't care (laughing).  I mean, I like my chances, but I go into every tournament liking my chances.   
 Q.  Do you think if you bring your best stuff you're going to win?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: If I have my best stuff, I believe so.   
 Q.  With the Scottish Open being played just along the road here next year prior to Royal Birkdale, is there a chance that you might consider playing in it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'd consider it, for sure.   
 Q.  Just wondered if you paid attention to the end of the U.S. Women's Open, and if you have any thoughts on what happened?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I didn't see it.  Obviously, when I got here quite a few people told me about it.  It's another unfortunate situation.  But, yeah, I shouldn't talk about it.   
 Q.  Just touching on the World No. 1 conversation there.  You may not be World No. 1 in the rankings, but do you feel like the best player in the world right now?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I always feel like I'm the best player in the world, but that's just me.  I've got a lot of confidence in my game.  Obviously I'm playing very well right now.   
 Q.  And you mentioned about the monkey being off your back with the majors.  We saw that with Phil as well.  Do you feel it could go that way now that you've knocked one off, you could have a bunch of them coming?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Hopefully.  I mean, that's the plan.  I feel like if I keep playing like I am, then, yes, I will win a few more.   
 Q.  Did you like links golf from the get-go?  And what do you like about it so much?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the first time I came over was in college.  We played a tournament at St. Andrews Bay.  Played a couple of other courses when we were here, and then I came back a couple years later and played the Walker Cup at County Down, and that was the first time I've played Portmarnock was when we came over for the Walker Cup.   
But ever since the first time I came over I just liked it.  I thought it was something different than we play on week-in or week-out in the U.S., or even around the world, it's just different golf here.  You've got to use a lot of your imagination.  You've got to hit all kinds of different shots throughout the day.  So it was just something I just enjoyed doing.   
 Q.  When you first came out here, which was the one major you thought would be best suited for your game and why?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Probably I would have said the Masters, for sure, just because it's a golf course that I like.  It sets up well for me.  Obviously being long is definitely an advantage there.   
 Q.  Which would have been the least?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Probably the one I won, the U.S. Open.  But I've played really well in the U.S. Open since I came out.  But, yeah, I don't know.  I've always liked tough tests of golf.  So anytime the golf course is very hard, I feel like it gives me more of an advantage.  The harder the golf course is, the more I like it.   
 Q.  As you continue to make your mark and win tournaments and obviously win majors and kind of getting over the hump this year, so to speak, how often do you still consult with No. 99, whether it's sports psychology advice, competing under pressure, what have you?  Because he knows a thing or two about winning championships and breaking records.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Me and Wayne talk a good bit, a few times a week.  He actually just texted me right before I came in here.  But, yeah, we talk a lot and we spend a lot of time together.   
 Q.  What specifically has he contributed to, let's say, your achievements as of late?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: He always gives me some advice on any number of different things.  But we definitely talk a lot about what it takes to get done and winning.  Then obviously -- he gives me more advice, probably, when I'm talking to you guys.   
 Q.  Jason Day has talked about the stresses that he feels with being World No. 1.  If you were to be World No. 1, do you think that might stress you out at all?  Can you understand why Jason feels stressed by the responsibility of it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know.  I'll let you know when I get there.   
 Q.  Can you think of anything that has ever stressed you out (laughter)?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, but on the golf course, not really.  It's a game.  I love playing it.  Definitely, I mean, for me coming down the stretch, I definitely feel it because I want to win and it means a lot to me.  I do get nerves or stress or whatever you want to call it, but I like it.  Like I think it's a good thing.  If you didn't get nervous, then something's wrong because then it doesn't mean anything to you.   
So it's just something that you've just got to figure out a way to deal with.  But obviously, Jason can deal with it pretty well because he's a good player.   
 Q.  We know that some golfers when they come over here to play at Royal Troon because of the conditions on the links course, they'll maybe consult some Scottish local knowledge as to how to play the nuances of the course.  Have you done that or do you feel trust in your caddie and your brother?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I didn't do that, but, yeah, as long as he gives me the right numbers we'll be in good shape.   
 Q.  You're in brilliant form at the moment.  You'll face Martin Kaymer in the first two rounds of your flight, tomorrow and Friday.  He's in well form at the moment, too.  What do you expect from him as a partner for the next two days?  Do you think you can push or force each other to even better performances?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've played a lot of golf with Martin, so he's a friend of mine and I enjoy playing with him.  It will be nice to play with him for the first two days.   
 Q.  You're on quite a run now, tournament by tournament.  A lot of guys that have been in here, Spieth and Rose and McIlroy, have been asked about sustaining a run.  For you, what is the most important part about sustaining a run of great golf?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I feel like I've been playing really solid all year long, so winning the last two tournaments I've played in, obviously, I'm on a good run right now.  But I feel like the run started at the beginning of the year.  It's just continuing on.  So just not changing anything that I'm doing.  Keep working on the same things.  My practise routine's the same.  So that's just what I've been doing.  I've been doing the same thing all year and I'm going to continue to do the same thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT