WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 3, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Here with the champion.  Dustin, you started out chasing the lead.  You started chasing your son, now you chase down your third WGC.  How satisfying has this weekend of 132 been?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I played good this weekend.  I felt like I drove it really well, had a lot of shots from the fairway, which you've got to do around here, especially with the course being firm.  I felt like I rolled the ball really well with the putter today.   
 Q.  What did these last couple of starts you've had, two wins, where does this put you mindset wise and game-plan wise going into the Open Championship at Troon?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel great.  I feel like my game is where it has been all year.  I feel like I've been playing really solid all year.  I've been driving it great.  I've been  wedging it good.  It's just I haven't been putting quite as well as I'd like to, and the last couple weeks I've just putted a little bit better, and the game shows it.   
 Q.  Your third World Golf Championship, now the 2016 Bridgestone Invitational winner.  66-66 on the weekend; what happened Friday night?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I played pretty good I thought on Thursday.  The golf course was playing tough.  On Friday I didn't -- I just didn't hit it very well.  It was just one of those days, didn't putt it good and didn't hit it well, shot a few over.  Then came out yesterday and today and felt like I did everything pretty well, got in the fairway a bunch, had a lot of looks at birdies and was able to roll a few in.   
 Q.  At any point were you thinking about a number today?  At the start of the day did you think I've got to get to this, or did you just let it flow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I mean, this golf course is playing tough, so it's not like you're going -- like I need to go out and shoot 63.  It's not a golf course -- you just go out and try to hit it in the fairway and try to get it on the green and try to make some putts.  I knew if I shot 4- or 5-under I'd have a chance.   
 Q.  Second win of the season, obviously the U.S. Open, now a World Golf Championship.  We're into a big stretch, British Open, RBC Canadian Open, PGA Championship.  Does this change the outlook, the goals or the attitude at all for you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I've just got to keep -- just keep going and going, keep working on my game, trying to get better, and just keep putting myself in positions to have a chance to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT