U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it feel like?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Honestly, I don't even know yet.  I mean, it feels great.  It feels really great.  After last year, to come back this year and perform like this, you know, it definitely, I think it shows what kind of golfer I am and, you know, it was awesome.
Q. What a way to do it too on 18.  It was like a punctuation mark, you know?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Finish in style, right?
Q. Talk about that shot.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, 18's a very difficult hole, and the most important thing is to get it in the fairway.  Drove it in the fairway, and then I had a great number to that flag.
The club I had, I knew even if I hit it really good, that's about as far as it was going to go is where it went.  I hit it absolutely perfect.  So I was definitely very happy to see it that close when I walked up.
Q. To have to play with the situation with the ball, I know you found out at 12 that they were contemplating whether to penalize you, what was that like to play with that looming over your head?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Honestly, I tried to -- they said they were going to look at it when we got done.  I felt like I wasn't going to be penalized, so I just went about my business.  Just focused on the drive on 12 and from there on out, that we'd deal with when we got done.
Q. Does it matter now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It doesn't matter now, but -- and I'm glad it didn't matter because that would have been bad.  But, you know, it worked out.
Q. When you see your name etched on the trophy with the greats of this sport, what does that -- it's not on there yet, but it will be soon?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, they're about to do that here in a minute, I think.  It couldn't be any better.  I think it's well deserved.  After everything that I've been through in the Majors, I've knocked on the door a bunch of times.  To finally get that Major win, it's huge.  It gets me a lot more confidence going into every Major to know that I can win.
Q. Is the monkey off your back?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's a big monkey off my back for sure.
Q. How does it feel?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel a lot lighter.
Q. What was the best part of your game today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think everything.  I drove it -- I thought I drove it really well today.  I hit my driver really well.  So I think that would have been the best part of my game today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT