U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The conditions the way they were, was this the kind of Oakmont you wanted to see?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's still playing tough.  But, yeah, I mean, obviously the practice days we played, the course was really firm and fast.  It's still kind of difficult out there.  But I think if we get nice weather, it's going to dry out pretty much.
Q. Talk about your strategy on 17, playing back there.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know if there is a good strategy or not there.  It's a short hole, but it's still pretty tough.  Obviously, if you go for it and you hit it in the right spot, it makes it a lot easier.  Yeah, I mean, I still like a (indiscernible) in the middle of the fairway.
Q. Even though you're probably the best driver of the ball out here, is it distance that makes that tough?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: With the wind like it was today, I'm kind of right in between.  I can't get a 3 wood there.  If I hit a driver solid, it's going to go too far.  So, you know, just it's the U.S. Open.  I like wedges out of the fairway.
Q. Do you anticipate playing that way all four rounds?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: All depends.
Q. What is it like having Wayne Gretzky out here to help you out?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously, I've known Wayne for a long time.  So it's obviously always good to have him around for support.
Q. (No microphone) to have to go out and (inaudible) better to start fresh again?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, doesn't matter.  I was prepared to play yesterday if we had to.  So it doesn't really matter to me.
Q. How do you prepare for the challenge of potentially playing 36 holes in a day?  Is there anything in particular you do?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  You know it's going to be a long day.  Still do everything exactly how you would if you were just playing 18.
Q. Your approach into 18, were you aimed a little bit right of the flag?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's a tough pin.  The wind off to the left, you know you can't hit it left of the flag.  I hit it right where I was trying to.
Q. (No microphone)?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I didn't quite understand.
Q. (No microphone)?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, yeah, it really doesn't matter, I don't think.  Yeah, I mean, it's nice to go and get 36 holes, 36 straight holes in.
Q. Does this course suit you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I like the golf course.  I've liked it since the first time I saw it last Tuesday.
Q. What do you like best?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just think it's a good, challenging golf course.  It's fun to play.  Got all kinds of -- got to hit a lot of different shots.
Q. Do you think your group caught the good side of the draw?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No idea.  I mean, the guys in the morning, guys played good.  I think it's going to -- the conditions are going to be fairly similar, I think.
Q. Your focus [indiscernible] especially with the par putt at 16.  Do you feel like you're in the zone right now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, those are putts that you 00 you've got downhill sliders.  All I'm focusing on is starting it on the line I want to with the right speed.  If it goes in, it goes in.
Q. Do you feel good putting on these greens?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I like these greens.  I mean, they're tough so you've really got to look at every, you know, every bit of every putt and see what it's doing, because they're tough greens to putt on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT