U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Dustin, how does it leave you feeling?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Good.  It was a long day today, but I felt like I played really solid all day for all 36 holes.  I drove it really well.  Hit a lot of great iron shots.  Felt like I rolled the putter really nicely too.  So very pleased with how it went today.
Q. What was the most challenging about being out there?  The one thing that tested you the most?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The greens.  They're so hard to putt.  No matter how close you are to the hole, it's just, they're tough to putt.  I mean, I hit so many good putts today that I thought were going in, and burned the edge or lip out.  But that's just how it goes.  I mean, these greens are tough.
Q. Sergio says he thinks this is the toughest golf course he's played.  Do you feel the same way?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's definitely very difficult.  I mean, it's definitely one of the toughest golf courses for sure.
Q. Which was tougher out there?  Was it more difficult physically or mentally, having to play 36 holes today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it was a little bit of both.  But I'm in pretty good shape, so the physical part's no problem.  But, you know, definitely mentally you've got to make sure you stay sharp all day, because you can't go to sleep on any shot out here.
Q. Playing 36 holes, how much momentum do you get from the par saves on the 2nd and the 8th?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Those are definitely big saves.  Kind of just hit a bad tee shot on 8.  And then 2 was -- one of the only times I got out of position all day was on 1 and 2 this afternoon.  Made bogey on 1.  And then to get that save on 2 was definitely big.  Kept the momentum going.
I know I'm hitting it well so I just, you know, I didn't let it bother me.  I hit a great putt too.  I thought I hit a great putt on 1 for par.  Like I said, these greens are tough.  You've just got to pick a line and pick the speed and hopefully it's the right one.
Q. Describe that lie on 2.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It wasn't that bad.  I just didn't hit it hard enough.  It's always a little weird, you're in there and there's no water or anything, but you're in a hazard.  So you can't ground your club.  So it's just always a little strange.  I had kind of a funky stance.
Q. Dustin, are there mixed feelings in terms of you're in good position, but a lot of putts didn't drop, had a lot of good looks today.  It looked like on 6, you kind of let out a little sort of like you couldn't get one to drop.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, no.  I mean, I felt like I hit good putts.  It wasn't like I hit bad putts or, you know, my speed was bad.  I just, you know, it's just tough.
I mean, I felt like I left myself in good positions too.  Just if you're just a hair off, it doesn't go in.  So I felt like I was doing everything correct, you know.  I was hitting all my putts where I wanted to.  They're going to go in eventually, but I made some nice putts too.
So, you know, I'm happy with the way everything went today.
Q. Dustin, last year, does it weigh in your mind in any way.  Does it motivate you?  Does it have any place in your mind at all?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: What happened last year?
Q. Dustin, what's been the one key today, if you had to pick one thing out of your game you were most pleased with?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The way I drove it.  I think I drove it really well today.
Q. If it firms up, does it feel a little narrower?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: You just have to see what happens.  If the firms up a good bit, it doesn't -- you know, it just changes some of the clubs you hit off the tee, that's all.
Q. You talked about your game plan on Wednesday.  How much today was sort of the exactly kind of the way that you drew it up?  Did it feel that way sometimes?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, obviously, Wednesday, the golf course -- Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, the golf course played way different than it did today.  Fortunately, I came and played last Tuesday, the week before, and it had rained really hard Monday night, so I got to play it with it really soft.  So I'd played it being soft, so it wasn't like anything I hadn't seen before.
Q. Dustin, talk to us about the last four holes, 15 through 18, and how difficult they are in terms of having to plan your shots and in terms of how long they are.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: You've just got to hit the fairway on 15 and 18.  Then 16 is a really tough par 3.  And then 17, you know, it's a short par 4, but it's difficult.  You've just got to kind of wherever the flag is, you've got to kind of have a game plan and stick to it.
Q. What is that game plan?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Today, with the back flag, I went for it and hit it in the right bunker, hit a great, you know, hit a good bunker shot.  Got to eight feet, just short of it, which was fine, and lifted out from there.
This morning, the pin was on the front just over the bunker and I laid up.  So it just depends on how I'm feeling, which way the wind's blowing.  Just all depends.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT