FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 12, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Dustin, before we get into your round today, which was obviously extremely exciting, 18 is interesting.  Little unlucky on the approach but you made up with the chip.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  I hit a great shot in there at 18, 9-iron from 169 and, you know, I definitely didn't see it spinning back.
You know, it happens and, you know, had a good look for birdie straight up the hill with the chip.  Fortunately made it.
Q. This is an interesting golf course.  It seems tough to get momentum and keep it.  What happened today?  What clicked at No. 7 where you were able to get the momentum and carry right on through?
You closed in 29.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  Starting on 7 I hit a good drive right down the middle and hit a sand wedge to three feet, made it.  That kind of jump-started me.  Hit a good shot on 8, lipped it out and missed the birdie.  9, I hit another good drive and had about a 12-footer and made it.
Just kind of kept it rolling from there.  Even the holes that I didn't birdie on the back-9, you know, everyone of them I had a good look at it and hit good putts.  They just didn't go in the hole.
Q. Well, it's 9-under, you're in the clubhouse.  Posted a number.  Lots of golf to go.  Obviously it's the wait and see game.
You could be the champion, you could be in a playoff, you could be in the mix.  We know you're in the mix regardless.
Must feel good heading into Oakmont.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  The game is actually really good.  The first couple rounds I really I don't know whether it was the heat or what, but I just -- my focus wasn't there in playing good golf and shooting mediocre scores just wasn't -- just wasn't getting, you know, the scores out of my rounds that I thought I should.
Q. Chip at 18.  Talk about it.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit a great second shot in.  Came off the front.  Fairly straightforward chip.  Straight up the hill and, you know, fortunately it went in.
Q. Low round the week.  New back-9 record of 29.
What does Dustin Johnson do now with the leaders with 9 holes left to play?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I expect the leaders to -- I expect 9-under not to get it done but just go inside and watch.
Q. Thank you, Dustin.  Very solid finish.  However this plays out, how much confidence does this finish give you going into the next week's U.S. Open?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Gives me a lot of confidence.  Right now I have a lot of confidence.  I feel like I've been playing really well.  The first three rounds I don't know whether it was -- I don't know what it was.
I just gave away so many shots the first three rounds and, you know, today, even got off to like a slow start there, you know, but turned it around, played 7 through 18 really well.
Q. After the rain break you came out very aggressive.  Did the softer conditions allow you to do that?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  The course, it's played fairly soft all week.  You can attack from the fairway, you could attack, attack the flags but with the soft conditions and the wind not blowing, definitely made it to be a little more aggressive, I mean especially in my position.  I had to be, I had to make something happened if I wanted any kind of chance.
Q. What's the biggest difference today between the first three days?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just -- I rolled in a couple putts.  Not long ones, just rolled in putts and I felt like, you know today, you know, all my putts I hit, even the ones I missed looked like they were going in.
You know, on the back-9 I had great looks on every hole.  Struck it a little better.  I got a little sloppy with my set-up the first couple days.  Caused me to mishit some shots.  I'm real comfortable, real confident going into next week.
Q. Wow, what a finish!
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Thank you.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I just played well.  I felt like I was playing, you know, that well all week, just couldn't put it together and, you know, didn't roll the putter that great but today from about 7 on in, you know, I felt like I putted really well and obviously shows.
Q. How different is it when you're playing this course three days one way and all of a sudden the rain comes in and you got to change your approach to it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Didn't change it too much.  Wasn't that much rain.  Softened up the greens maybe a little bit but not a whole lot and so the course, you didn't have to adjust too much for the conditions.
Q. Is that tough when you have to take a break for a couple hours?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  We get to go back out and warm up.  I'm used to it by now.  I've been out here for nine years.  It's happened to us quite a lot so you kind of figure out a -- ways to deal with it.
Q. In addition to everything else you're playing for, what is it like to play for the kids of St. Jude's Research Hospital?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously St. Jude's Children's Hospital, what they do is just magnificent and obviously this tournament supporting them is such a great cause and I try to get down there every year and spend sometime with the kids.  I think it's just awesome.
Q. What do you do for two and a half hours now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just watch and see.  I mean with the conditions right now, the guys should beat my number.
Q. You got to be pretty pleased with next week in Oakmont.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I played good all year.  I'm looking forward to next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT