THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right.  We'd like to welcome Dustin Johnson into the interview room.  Dustin, great start.  How do you assess today's round?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was pretty good.  I felt like I just played well right out of the gates.  I hit great shots, you know, in the right spot on the greens and rolling in some putts.  It's nice to -- I hit it close on the first three holes and made all three of them, so that's always a good way to start your day.
Q. Yesterday Jordan sat there and called you arguably the best player on Tour.  You obviously showed us your skills today.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, thanks for that, Jordan.  I didn't -- I mean, I feel like this year -- you know, I've felt like I'm playing well.  I just haven't quite played up to my potential.
With me, it has everything to do with the putter.  I rolled it well today, and you know, even throughout the year, the days I putt well, I play well.  I've been working pretty hard on the putter, and I felt like it's finally starting to pay off.
Q. Could you just continue on that.  You've had some good finishes.  It seems like you've just been really close to breaking out this year and it just hasn't happened.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, for the past few years, I feel like my golf game in total has been solid and consistent.  I feel like -- you know, every week I feel like I'm up there and I've got a chance to win.  It's just -- you know, and with this game, you've got to make putts.  I mean, it's just what you've got to do.
You know, it's something that this year I feel like I've struggled a little bit with, but every other part of my game I feel like is in really good shape.  My wedge game has really improved.  I feel like I'm driving it a little better.  So every part of my game, I feel like's getting better, just got to be a little more consistent with putting.
Q. Dustin, most guys consider this a second shot course, but the guys who are 1 and 2 right now are top 10 in driving, I believe.  So is it also a bombers course?  What do you think?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  If you look at the guys who win here, it's not -- I don't think it -- there's an array of lengths of what they drive it.  Here, you've got to hit it in the fairway.  It's definitely a second shot golf course, but first of all, you've got to hit it in the fairway.
The fairways are pretty generous, but you've got to hit them.  And once you're in the fairway, you've definitely got to control the distance coming into these greens because you want to leave yourself in the right spot.
Q. You make the game look easy sometimes.  Are there times when the game is easy for you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't think this game is ever easy, but, yeah, it's definitely easier some days than others.  You know, it's still -- even the days like today playing really well, you still got to -- it's still hard.  You're still concentrating.
Today I was really comfortable out there, and I feel like my golf swing's -- you know, I'm comfortable with it, got a lot of confidence in it.  So it makes it -- it definitely makes it easier.  You still got to get it done.  Still got to make the putts.  It doesn't matter how good you hit it.
Q. When you're struggling with your putting, is it technical or mental?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: That's a good question.  I don't know.  If I did, I think I'd probably putt a little better.
But to get on that subject, I don't feel like I've been struggling as far as -- I'm just not making the putts.  I feel like I'm burning the edges all the time.  It's not like I feel like I'm putting bad or hitting bad putts, it's just like barely off.  But do like I did today, I just hit it closer.
Q. In the few several tournaments after the U.S. Open last year, you seemed to take on the attitude that what happened at Chambers Bay did not really linger much.  I'm wondering now, looking back almost a year later, was that really the case?  Were you able to put that behind you quickly?  Or were there any points at all where maybe you sat up thinking about it or it got to you, bothered you at all?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  I felt like I did what I was supposed to do in the situation.  So it wasn't really anything to be upset about or to be down on.  I hit the shots I needed to hit in the situation and in that moment.
It was unfortunate the surfaces of those greens weren't as smooth as they should have been, but it is what it is.  Everybody was putting on them.
Q. Did the greens make it easier almost to handle that because you knew it wasn't maybe so much your fault?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, for sure, because all week -- I felt like I hit it unbelievably well that week with everything.  Just, you know, I mean, it was so difficult to get the ball in the hole.  Doesn't matter -- might hit ten good putts and it will go in, hit a terrible putt, and it will go in.  So it was one of those weeks where it was just -- it was tough.
Q. Dustin, talking to your peers, they regularly describe you as probably the most talented player in golf, or at least on the Tour.  I'm wondering, when does that talent carry you the most?  At what point in the round or what part of your game?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know.  I've never really thought about it.  I have no idea.
Q. D.J., just curious if you changed your game plan at all coming into this tournament on how you attack this golf course?  Or did you just play it kind of the same way that you always do?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I didn't change anything.  I just play it the same as always.  I mean, it doesn't -- this golf course doesn't really give you much option.  It just kind of makes you hit it to a spot, and then you just go from there.  No change in the game plan.
Q. Have you been to Oakmont?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I have not.
Q. Do you have plans to go there before?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm thinking about going there on Tuesday, next Tuesday.
Q. Is it difficult for you at all to not look ahead to the U.S. Open?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  I mean, I'm playing the Memorial.  So I've got a lot of other things to worry about than the U.S. Open.  I'll worry about it when I get there.
Q. You made the point last year, maybe it was specific to Chambers Bay, that you needed -- I forgot what they said -- ten practice rounds to another course or whatever.  How many -- whatever the Open, since you only see it once every however many years -- practice rounds do you feel like you need to get in to feel you're properly prepared?  Is it more about the course, or is it more about D.J.?  Don't talk in the third person.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It depends on the course, but generally, if I can play it three times -- two, three times, I feel like I can get a really good game plan on the golf course.
I mean, the golf course -- it depends on the person, I guess.  But for me, if I can get three rounds in, then I'm going to feel fairly comfortable.  That's what -- at Chambers, I think I got out there, and I think I got three total rounds in before we started, and then I felt like I knew the golf course pretty well.
Q. After what you've been through personally, what would you say you've learned?  And where would you say you are in your station of life right now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm at a great, great point in my life.  I think everything's going really well.  My son's healthy.  Family's good.  So I'm excited about the rest of this year.
Q. Dustin, I have another one about your round today.  Got up to 9 under with three to go.  Did you feel like you were going to get to 10 under?  Did you get hungry at that point for more, more, more?  And also, you had kind of a long wait on your approach to 17.  Did that kind of slow your pace down a little bit?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, I birdied 15 to go 9.
And then 16, tough par 3.  I hit a great shot in there right where I wanted to, about 20 feet, just right of it.  Hit a good putt there, just barely missed it.
And then 17, hit a good tee shot.  I mean, maybe if -- I don't know.  I don't think it -- it didn't bother me having to wait.  I just made a bad swing.
Q. What has been your view on golf in the Olympics?  Does the current situation there have any impact on you personally and any decision to play?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm going to play.  I'll just probably go down there with me and my caddie.  I don't think -- the family's not going to go.  But, yeah, I'm definitely going to play.  I'm excited to play if I make the team.
Q. Dustin, a little bit off the beaten path, but NBA Finals start tonight.  Cavs or Warriors?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it's going to be a really close game, but -- I don't know.  I like the Cavs, but also I like the Warriors.  I don't really have a dog in this fight, but I think it's going to be a close game.  At home, I would have to go with the Warriors.
Q. Dustin, getting back to Chambers Bay, I guess everyone thinks about the three-putt, but do you ever lean on the fact that you hit one of the best drives and one of the best approach shots at the U.S. Open on the final hole?  Is that something you think back to?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, that's really the only thing I think about.  I don't think about those three putts for sure  (laughter).
THE MODERATOR: Dustin, great job.  Thanks for your time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT