THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2021
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. That was maybe in keeping with how it's going, that break on 17?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yep, that just sums up my week right there.  I don't know, I felt like I'm playing good, just not scoring very well, missing some short putts.  Just not really -- how it's been going.  The golf course is definitely -- it's not the golf course, it's all me.  But yeah, just missing some shorts putts, and a couple breaks here or there --
 Q. It's obviously a good shot you hit there, though.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.  I mean, I pulled it a yard maybe.  I was trying to hit it a yard right of the flag.  I hit it right at it.  Obviously it was unfortunate it hit the flag and went in the water, but it happens.
 Q. They said on the broadcast that you withdrew yourself from consideration for the Olympics.  What went into that decision?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I don't know, I really didn't think much about it.  I actually didn't really ever decide whether I was going to play or not, I just didn't sign up.  But it's right in the middle of a big stretch of golf for me, so that was the reason I was kind of waffling on it a little bit.  It's a long way to travel, and I think WGC is the week right after it.  The British is a couple weeks before it.  It's a lot of traveling at a time where it's important for me to feel like I'm focused playing on the PGA TOUR.
 Q. If it were up to you, would they just give a little bit more space and move things back?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I think if there was a little more time, especially if you weren't trying to fly right from Tokyo to Memphis and play WGC, yeah, I obviously definitely would have thought about it a lot more.  If there was a little more space between there for sure.
 Q. What you're going through now, not hitting it horribly, but in the past what do you do to get out of this, or is it just you know it's there and it's going to come?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I feel like I'm swinging good, I'm hitting some good shots, just making some mental mistakes.  Just need to get a little more focused on what I'm doing and what I'm trying to do.
 Q. You're not playing next week?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I'm playing Match Play next, so I get to rest a little bit and then I'll be ready for Match Play and Augusta.
 Q. Have you been there since you won?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I went up last week.
 Q. How was it?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It's good.  Really good shape.
 Q. Was it just like fun, casual --
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, just went and played a couple rounds and then came home.
 Q. Just a quick one about yesterday.  I'll tell you what your brother said in a minute, but your second shot into 9 you hit looked like a fairway wood, you've got a big tree you've got to hit it over.  I just couldn't believe how high and far you hit it.  How many guys in the field can actually play that shot?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I don't know, there's probably a few of them.  Yeah, it was a decent shot.  Made an easy par, though, so it doesn't really matter.
 Q. Austin said every player on TOUR and every top amateur can hit that shot.  I'm like, wow.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it wasn't that -- I had a nice lie over there in the first cut, so it was easy to get up in the air.
 Q. How aware are you of boom mics on the course and how does that inhibit you, if at all?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I'm used to it by now.  I think I'm pretty good about watching what I say.
 Q. Is it too much for you or do you think it's appropriate?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I don't know, it just is what it is.  I don't know, I'm used to it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT