MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. First thing first for me anyway, it looks like you're going to go into Sunday with a legitimate chance to win the Masters for the first time in your career. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm right there. As tough as it is out there, I felt like I played really well. I felt like I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in the hole. So I'm very pleased with the way I'm playing, I'm very pleased with my position. 
Tomorrow just go out and just‑‑ when you're making the turn going to number 10, you just want a chance to win.

Q. Do you think you need to do anything different than you've done the first three days other than make a few more putts?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I just got to keep giving myself chances, keep hitting it on the correct side of the hole, have uphill looks as much as you can and try to keep the stress down as much as possible. You don't want to be grinding over pars all day. 
Today I felt like I didn't have to do that, I felt like I hit good shots, hit them in the right spots where I had good looks at birdies, and a lot of easy pars out there, which is ‑‑ tomorrow, it all depends on the conditions and the pin placements. 

Q. Number 10 and No. 12, really good looks at birdie and those burned the edge. How did you deal with maybe the frustration of being so close?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, as tough as it is out there, you know when you do have really good looks at birdies you want to make those, because you know you're not going to get too many opportunities for close looks at birdie. 
It's not frustrating, because I hit the putts where I wanted to and maybe the wind held them up or it hit something and kind of wiggled the other way, but it's just, that's just how it goes. In these tough conditions, I'll take par. Standing on the first tee I would have taken 18 pars and sat in the clubhouse all day. So I'm happy with the way I played, I'm happy with even par and it was a good solid day.

Q. How big was that sand save on 18?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was big. You always want to definitely want to make four there, especially when I just bogeyed 17. Not that I really did anything too bad there, I hit a tee shot just a little out of play, but I got it in the front bunker, which I thought was a good spot to be. I hit a nice bunker shot up there three, four feet. Daniel's putt coming on the same line doesn't turn, really. I'm playing it right edge, I hit it perfect and it dives across the hole and lips out. That was just kind of a tough one to miss there. But it was definitely nice to get that one up‑and‑down on 18.

Q. Did you not quite get what you wanted out of the par‑5s today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I was happy with ‑‑ obviously No. 2 was right in the middle of the fairway and just hit a terrible second shot. Didn't hit a decent bunker shot. I had a great look up the hill, hit a good putt, just burned the right edge. 
But I came back and made a great birdie on 3. So I was pleased to walk off number 4 or actually even through 5 was fine with me. 

Q. You played them 1‑under of the four par‑5s?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: That's fine. On a day like today, it's tough and it's very difficult, so I'm happy with it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT