SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Dustin, came up a little bit light.  Saw a lot of good things on your game.  Really on the greens I thought you were sharp all week.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm happy with where my game is.  Coming down the stretch I hit a lot of good shots.  You know, had some great looks at it and hit great putts or I hit the putts where I wanted to, they just -- you know, just burned the edges quite a few times, you know, there on the back-9.  Made only -- really made one terrible swing, that was on -- actually it wasn't a bad swing.  On 11 there, fairway, wasn't that bad, just the wind just keeps -- it kept flipping all day back and forth, and I think I caught it just on the left.  Obviously with a 9-iron I'm going at it.
Q. Your big shot on the 16th, did you see it going that much right?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It breaks left, you know, and I hit it right there, just never moved.  You know, hit a good putt right where I wanted to.
Q. Good luck at Augusta.  I think you're hitting the ball just fine.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm very pleased with the game going into next week.
Q. Threw your name in the mix on Sunday.  All in all, what do you take from this day and this week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, I definitely think I'm playing well.  I feel like my game is in good shape.  I'm hitting the shots that I want to hit, and I feel like I'm controlling my ball very well.  You know, I feel like I'm putting really well.  Just today it just -- hit a lot of good putts, just didn't go in the hole, and, you know, the greens are so good so you got to make putts out here.  Probably the biggest difference today was 11.  I'm in the middle of the fairway with a 9-iron.  I can't make double bogey.  I hit a pretty good shot, just maybe a yard too far right and went down in the water and made double.  But, you know, I think that was -- then I came back, birdied 12 and 14 and 15 and, you know, unfortunately 13, you know, just didn't play the par-5s all that well today.
Q. How confident are you heading to Augusta and your chances there?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel great going into Augusta.  I feel like my game is in really good shape.  Two really solid weeks in a row, put myself up there in the mix today and hit some great shots today.  You know, No. 11 cost me pretty big today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT