SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 2, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  DJ, 10-under par.  70 today.  How pleased are you with that?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm pretty pleased with it.  Decent finish.  The last few holes, the conditions are pretty tough.  The wind -- the wind was blowing pretty hard and kind of swirling like.  It never was going just the same direction the whole time, so made it difficult to judge the distance, you know, on your shots.  But overall pretty good day, you know, few mistakes here and there, but other than that, it was pretty solid.   
 Q.  We'll look at some of your highlights.  We know how great you are tee to green.  When the putter is hot, you're difficult to beat.  You're actually ranked 1st in putting this week.  Talk about how good that's feeling in the moment.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  I'm rolling it where I'm looking, so that always helps.  I feel like I always read the greens very well.  So when I feel like I get a good read, I've been making a lot of good strokes.   
 Q.  Here on the 8th, an example.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit two great shots in here and had like a nice putt just outside right from about 10, 15, 20 feet.  Rolled it right in the middle.  That definitely helped after making two bogies in a row.  Looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Just these last three holes, it would be difficult.  Lot of people dropping shots there.  You picked one up on it.  This shot into 17?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit a great drive down -- I had 140.  Hit a pitching wedge, hit a nice shot in there just under the hole.  One of the better shots I hit today, rolled in another good putt here.   
 Q.  Playing great so far this week.  Is there a plan going in to tomorrow?  Will you still be aggressive on this golf course?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just need to get it in the fairway a little bit more and feel like I'm driving it really well, just with the driver, feel like the driver has been good.  So just try to hit some fairways and swinging well enough and definitely putting well enough to get it done.  Go out and play a good solid round tomorrow.   
 Q.  Dustin, I thought that was a really nice up-and-down on 18.  In fact, you had a lot of nice saves throughout the course of the tournament and today's round.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  I mean, with it being this windy, it's definitely not as easy to hit the greens, you know, you're not having as short of clubs coming in.  Seems like every hole is into the wind, too.  I mean all day, just seems like the wind was -- somehow was hurting on every shot, which doesn't make a lot of sense, but for some reason it played that way today.   
I feel like I'm in a really good position going into tomorrow.  Played really well on Thursday and then, you know, just mediocre last two days.  But my short game has been really good.  So, you know, that held me in there the last two days under tough conditions.  And not really swinging it my best, so hopefully tomorrow a little different wind and I can strike it a little better.   
 Q.  Talk to me about your putting.  You're 3rd in strokes gained putting.  You had 25 putts in this 3rd round.  You made 103 feet of putts in this 3rd round.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Is that a lot?   
 Q.  90 would be average.  You made an awful lot of putts, lengthy this week.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  I made -- the first couple days I made a couple long ones.  I didn't really make any long ones today, but sometimes do you that, sometimes you don't.  But I feel like I'm rolling the short ones really well.  That's the key for my game really, if I'm making the short ones inside 10 feet, because when you do hit good shots, you got to capitalize on them.  That's what I usually do very well and this week, but the greens were perfect.  So, if you can get a good read on the green and you hit it where you want to, then they're going in because they're definitely not bouncing or anything.   
 Q.  I agree with you.  You're perfectly positioned for the final round, and it was a pleasure watching you play.  Thank you.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Thank you.   
 Q.  2-under, 70 in the 3rd round.  Your thoughts on this little bit of a roller coaster today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  I mean, the conditions were very tough and I wasn't probably swinging my best, but I hit -- obviously I hit some good shots, and the bad ones were pretty bad, but I felt like I putted well.  My short game definitely kept me in it, and, you know, it's just tough conditions today.   
 Q.  Considering where you are and with the leaderboard you have a lot of experience, how much of an advantage is that for you on Sunday knowing you've won a lot before?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It definitely helps.  The more times you get it done on Sundays, it's never -- it's never easy.  Definitely having the knowledge and being in the position quite a few times, it definitely helps, it definitely gives me an advantage for tomorrow, but you still got to go out and play good golf.  You got to hit good shots, got to make putts.  It's still going to be a tough day, and hopefully I come out and bring my game tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT