WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Defending, going into the final round with a chance, you have to like where you're at?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm a few back.  I'm going to have to go out and shoot a really good score.  Rory is obviously playing well.  But a good score around here will definitely move you up the leaderboard and getting off to a good start tomorrow will definitely help to put some pressure on him.  Tomorrow, just got to go out and shoot as low as I can.
Q. You were five back last year, so it's possible.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, anything's possible.  With this golf course, there's trouble on just about every hole, so I just need to go out and keep playing like I'm playing.  I feel like I'm playing really well.  Today I missed a couple short putts and didn't really hole any putts and still shot 1-under on a tough day.  So I'm pleased with that.
Q. How much tougher was the wind and the overall conditions today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought the golf course played pretty tough.  There was a lot of shots, you had to really hit some good shots just to get it on the green.  I felt like I played pretty solid today.  Just didn't roll the putter quite nicely as I would have liked to.
Q. I'm sure there's a lot of golf courses on TOUR that you like and fit your eye.  Where does this one rank?  Seems like you love this one.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I like it.  It's a great golf course.  It's in fantastic shape.  I mean, it's hard, though.  There's a lot of really difficult shots out there.  And I think that's one of the reasons I like it:  Every shot you're hitting, you've really got to think about it, think about exactly where you want to land it and how far it needs to go.
It's just a tough golf course and I think being tough and with the wind and everything, it keeps me mentally in it all day.
Q. The wind, was it two clubs or was it gusty?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: If you were going straight into it, it was a couple clubs.
Q. Seemed to change where you were --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it was tough today because it was definitely swirling a little bit.  It would go to helping and hurting a little.  It was tough to get the right numbers.
Q. There have been three different winds this week, is one harder than the other or doesn't really matter?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I liked the wind yesterday I guess (smiling).  No, it doesn't matter.  If you play well, you can shoot a good score.
Q. What do you think it's going to take to win here number-wise, any idea?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It all depends on the conditions tomorrow.
Q. Same like today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: You never know.  15-under.
Q. How do you feel going into tomorrow compared to last year, similar approach?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Same, I just have to go out and just play my game and don't worry about what anyone else is doing.  Just go out and try to hit fairways and greens, make some birdies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT