FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2016
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tough start initially, but how were you able to fight back?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought that I definitely hit a few bad shots, not too bad, it seemed like every time though like I missed a green, I was just in a spot where it wasn't a bad spot, but I got a bad lie in a bunker here and there and then miss a few putts and it was just -- but I did play great coming down the stretch.   
I felt like I drove it better starting from -- even though I bogeyed 12, I hit it in the fairway on 12.  I hit a good second shot, just pushed it in the bunker and didn't get it up-and-down.   
But I birdied 13, 14.   
Hit good shots on 15.   
I thought I hit a better shot on 16 and got in that bunker and it was no sand down there.  So it was an impossible shot with no sand.  It wouldn't have been bad with some sand.   
Then hit great drives on 17 and 18.  Had a good look on 17.  And then had a good look for 3 on 18.   
So definitely feel a little more comfortable going into tomorrow, know it's going to be tough, got some weather coming in.  This golf course is tough with no weather, so it's going to be a hard day tomorrow, but 1- or 2-under is going to go a long way.   
 Q.  Talk about tomorrow morning.  You're in touch with the lead, so how important is it for you to come out and maybe put whatever the low number is out there early and maybe get some momentum in your round?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's going to be important to get off to a good start tomorrow.  I think the weather's going to get worse as the day goes on.  So getting off to a good start, maybe putting some pressure on the guys who are -- I don't know how many back I am -- three back, so I mean three shots can go in one hole.  So it's not like -- anything can happen and I feel confident in the game.   
Today it was just a little bit off.  But I hit some really nice shots coming down the stretch.  So I think I figured it out and I'm excited for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT