THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2020
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Thoughts on your performance this week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Most under par I've ever shot but all in all throughout the whole week for four days, I swung it the same every day.  I felt like I was really in control of the golf ball and I was controlling my distance really well.  Hit a lot of really good iron shots.  Didn't matter what club it was, wedges to my 3-iron, I was hitting quality golf shots.  I felt I was in control over everything.  Over the weekend I drove it nicely and put it in the fairway a bunch, and if I was in the fairway I felt like I could attack the golf course just because I was swinging so well with my irons.  It was a really good performance this week.  Definitely the best one I've ever had.
Q. You're now No. 1 in the FedExCup points standings.  What does that mean to you with two more playoff events?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Obviously you want to be up in that top spot, or close to the top going into East Lake because especially with the new format and the FedExCup, obviously you want to start as far ahead as you can, because this is a tough golf course.
But I like it.  The new format, everyone's got a chance to win.  So no matter what position I'm in going into East Lake, I'm still going to have to go play really good golf if I want to win the FedExCup.
Q. Talk about the attitude and determination you had going into this final round?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I know obviously I'm really comfortable on this golf course and I'm swinging it really well.  My mind-set going into today was one shot at a time but I knew if I hit it in the fairway, I'm still going have to be aggressive because guys can shoot really low here.  Even though I had a 5-shot lead, I liked where I was, but I still felt like I needed to go out and play some really good golf if I wanted to win.
Q. Give me a few words to describe your play this week.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Very solid.  Throughout the whole bag was solid.
Q. You've had some impressive wins in your 22 PGA TOUR wins.  Throughout the bag, how good was this performance?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I think today is probably my best performance throughout the bag for four days because I really played well all four days.
Q. You said this a couple of times.  You said, "I'm close to being back to that dominant form I had in 2017 when I was No. 1 in the world for a long time."  How close are you right now?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   This week, I got my form back I think, and hopefully it's good when it's the same for all four days.  Obviously I've had some tournaments where I play good a couple rounds but not four straight rounds.  So that obviously feels really good, and I feel like the putting is starting to come around and I'm starting to roll the putter really nicely.  I've got a lot of confidence in the golf swing right now, so I'm really looking forward to these next couple weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT