UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 20, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Found out you were the former roommate of one of our Asian Tour players, Lindsay Renolds.  Can you tell us about your time in college?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, we both went to Coastal Carolina, so I met him when I got to college.  I think he's a good really good player, obviously taken him a little bit longer to make it but he's a good player.  I think he'll do well out here and hopefully he'll continue to do well.  I was talking to him and he needs to play well the next few weeks.   
I think he's a great player.  He's a really good kid and he's a good friend of mine.   
 Q.  What was he like in college?  Was he brainy or the jock?  Can you give us an insight into what he was like?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, he was always a hard worker.  He always did well in school and then he's a hard worker on the golf course.  I just remember he used to practise all the time.   
 Q.  You don't come out to Asia much but you obviously enjoyed some success in Shenzhen.  How do you enjoy being back out here?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously it's a long way to travel for me.  I like to come at least once a year.  This year, I'll be three times over here.  So Presidents Cup and then playing here at the UBS Hong Kong Open, and then in two weeks I'll be in Shanghai for HSBC.  Getting a lot of play.   
I enjoy every time I come over here; I've really enjoyed it, and I'm excited about this week.   
 Q.  You've had a fantastic year on the PGA TOUR, three Top-10 finishes in the four majors.  How do you assess your year so far?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think I had a pretty good year.  I would like to have a better one next year but you always want to get better.  But this year was really solid.  I thought I played pretty consistent all year long.  Contended a lot of times.   
So next year, I'm looking to do the same:  Put myself in contention, give myself opportunities to win as much as I can.   
 Q.  This year, we've even two or three of the Asian Tour stars start to make an impression in Europe and on The European Tour.  Have you seen Anirban Lahiri or Kiradech Aphibarnrat and how they have gone in the States in year?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've seen them play and Anirban was playing at The Presidents Cup.  I didn't play against him but I saw him play a little bit.  He's a good player and he's done very well this year.  I think he's got a great game.   
 Q.  I suppose just to finish off, you mentioned the future.  You're planning on coming out to Asia more, a couple times a year?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: If it fits in my schedule, yeah, I enjoy coming.  Yeah, I'd like to come and play a few times a year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT