BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Solid back nine has got you in good position, 12-under par.  How was it out there today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, with the wind in a little bit different direction blowing pretty solid today, and then it's a little cooler, so definitely played more difficult.  But the front nine I made a few bogeys and then hit one bad tee shot on No. 7, and it cost me a double bogey.  But other than that, I felt like I played really well.  Missed a few, even with the double, I missed a short putt, missed a few short ones on the front, so I didn't play that well.  But on the back I put it together and shot a nice, solid back nine.
Q. Obviously going to be a little bit behind Jason, the leader.  Obviously a lot to gain by having a good round tomorrow.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, at this point I'm just trying to put myself in the best situation for next week, and you know, get some confidence with the game, which I'm starting to get a lot more confidence in the putter.  I feel like I can make some putts.  Tomorrow I need to go out and shoot a good number and just try and improve my position in the FedExCup.
Q. I want to take you back over the three scorecards you've had so far.  Obviously the first day, 71, not a great score --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I played terrible.
Q. Second day an immaculate 63 with no bogeys at all, and today a bit of a mixture.  What's going on?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I played okay the first day, just the putter was awful the first day.  I just putted poorly, and out here if you don't make any putts, you're going to shoot even par.
Yesterday obviously I putted very well, drove it well, and kind of did everything well.  Today a bit of the same.  The front nine, all my bogeys were just kind of missed short putts.  I hit one bad drive on 7 and then again missed a short putt and made double bogey.  But the other three bogeys were just missed short putts.
But then put it together on the back nine and shot a nice 4-under on the back.  The game is really good right now, and I putted well, I just missed a few short ones early in the round but made up for it on the back nine.
Q. 81 percent greens in regulation.  No one has hit more greens this week, including Jason Day, so the swing must be feeling really good.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I am swinging well, hitting a lot of greens.  I'd like to hit it in the fairway a little bit more, and I feel like I'm putting well.  I just didn't putt well the first day.  That was awful.  The last two days I putted nicely.
Q. How excited are you to be going back to the TOUR Championship next week with a chance to win?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm excited.  The last time I played in Atlanta I played really well, had a chance to win there on Sunday, so it's a golf course that I like, and it's one that I enjoy playing.  It always playing fairly tough.  I'm in a good position -- I need to have a good round tomorrow so I can move up ahead in the points standings and have a chance where if I win the tournament I'll win the FedEx.
Q. Can I just ask you about being so far behind; everybody is far behind Jason now.  What's the mindset going into tomorrow?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, for me it's looking into next week.  I want to shoot a good number so I can improve my position going into next week.  I don't know what I'm projected.  But a good round tomorrow could move me up in the points standings, and at this point I think I'm a little too far back to make something happen, but you never know.  You never know.  Shoot another 9-under and we'll see what happens.  You know, tomorrow is definitely more about putting a good, solid score up and improving my position for the FedEx.
Q. How about gaining some momentum, too, going into East Lake?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I feel like the game is really good, so obviously a good solid round tomorrow will give me a lot of confidence going into next week.
Q. How is the course holding up?  Four inches of rain in the last 48 hours.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's great.  The greens are perfect.  It's a little wet out there, but for as much rain as we've had, I think the course is holding up nicely.
Q. How were the par-5s?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It just all depends.  With this wind direction, you get one of them downwind, the other ones are -- the other one is kind of right to left and in, and then 18 is into the wind.  I think the other wind direction made the par-5s easier.
Q. You have a vote in the matter; do you think Player of the Year is on the line next week, or is it a done deal already?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, it's kind of hard to -- Jordan has won two majors and a few other tournaments.  I mean, it's kind of hard to vote against Jordan, even though Jason has had obviously a fantastic finish to the year.  You never know.  I guess he wins this week and next week, who knows.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT