THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You are known for the longest shots.  So who would you like to play just to show your prowess in the long shots, like Jason?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: In what way?  Oh, it doesn't matter.  Any of them, they are all great players.  They will all be good matches, so any of them are great.   
 Q.  How many holes do you think you can put it on the par 4?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: There's really only one that's drivable.  14 is about the only one that you can reach.  And then I can reach all the par 5s.   
 Q.  Despite injury, Jim Furyk joined the team as an assistant captain.  How does it mean to you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought it was great.  I thought it was awesome that he came to give his support and help the team out.  That was really cool of him, and he's great in the team room, and obviously he's a veteran.  He's done this a bunch of times, so any time you can have a veteran like that with all of the experience he has helping you, I think it's definitely a positive.  He's a lot of fun in the team room.   
 Q.  What do you like about this week?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: What do you like?  Everything's great.  Usually, all the guys who are on the teams you're playing week-in, week-out against.  But to have our team come together and everybody's pulling for everyone, and just hanging out with the guys, playing practice rounds, having dinner, just hanging out in the team rooms, it's completely different than what we are used to.  It's a lot of fun.  We have a great time.   
 Q.  What did you think of Phil's pants last night?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes, they were nice.  They were very nice.   
 Q.  Would you wear them?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I wouldn't wear them, but Phil can pull them off.   
 Q.  Your record so far is eight wins, one loss.  So what are is your projection for this time?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, I feel like I'm playing well right now, but you never know the guys you're playing against, they can play really well.  So I just want to play as well as I can and not give away any matches.  Just make them earn it.  If they are going to beat you, they have got to earn it.   
 Q.  Is this week, I don't want to say easier, but is it a little bit less heavy because of the streak that America is on and winning so many, as opposed to going into these Ryder Cups?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: We still want to win.  I think there's just as much pressure.  They are a little bit different, but you know, I think we still have the same mentality.  It's not -- I don't feel like it's any different than The Ryder Cup.   
 Q.  No less pressure during these because you've had so much success?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, because you still want to keep the success going.  So you still -- you don't want to give the Cup back, for sure.   
 Q.  What was Melbourne like for you?  That was your first Presidents Cup experience but you had a Ryder Cup behind you.  Was it less intense?  Was it more?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Any time -- well, I guess I played Ryder Cup in Wales, and then played The Presidents Cup in Australia.  So there's two away.  Both of them were away.  They still were -- I don't know, I think the pressure was just as equal in both of them to me.   
 Q.  Weather was better in Melbourne?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes, yes it was.   
 Q.  We forget sometimes that in 2013 at the last Presidents Cup, not only were you not on the team, you were not even really talked about as a pick.  When you go back and look at that year --  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I think I finished like 11th or 12th on the list, I think I was.  I was pretty pissed I didn't get picked (laughter).  Why you got to bring that up?  I'm just kidding.   
 Q.  I think we are used to you being on every team or being eligible for every time.  I just wonder if that was any type of motivation not being part of that team?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Of course.  I wanted to be on that team really bad, and I thought I played well enough to at least get a pick.  Because I think I ended up like 12th.  I think it was 12th on the points list.  So yeah, I was disappointed.  It's definitely more motivation to make it back on this team, and then obviously definitely make it on -- I want to make the team every year, whether it's Ryder Cup or Presidents Cup.   
 Q.  This is your first Cup competition sense 2012.  At what point when you got here this week did it really jog your memory about being on these teams?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's all great, they are all so much fun.  I've enjoyed every single one I've been on.  And even though it's been a little bit, it didn't feel like it's been that long.  It's the same guys, kind of same team, and I felt like I should have -- or I would have been on the team last year, too.  So I don't feel like I missed anything.   
 Q.  What was the first thing you did, first team function?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I got in Sunday night.  So didn't really do anything Sunday night.  We went up to the team room and kind of just said hello to everybody at the hotel, and then we all played, or most of us played Monday morning.  And then last night, we had a team dinner.   
 Q.  And now you're all in uniform again and everything comes back?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: We were in uniform on Monday when we were out here.  You were out here.   
 Q.  I saw it.  Wasn't impressed but it was good.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought we looked damn good.   
 Q.  What were some things that you guys did last Sunday night?  Did you play something together?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I got in, I was tired, so I went to bed.   
 Q.  Is there any player in mind who you want to compete against?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, any of them, I'll take it.  I'm ready for any of them.  They are all great players, so it's going to be a good match no matter who it is.  There's not one player that I want to play against, or there's no one that I don't want to play against.   
 Q.  Have you ever played with Anirban Lahiri?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Don't think so.   
 Q.  There's a couple guys I would imagine you've never been paired with.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I know them but I just don't -- I don't think I've ever played with.  I might have played with Thongchai a long time ago, like at Doral or something.  Not my rookie year but like the year next year maybe, I'm not sure.  I think I played with Thongchai once.   
 Q.  Is distance an advantage this week?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: There's a few places definitely where it can help.  You can get over some bunkers that a lot of guys can't, so that obviously helps.  I mean, it doesn't -- there's no really places where you're restricted on how far you can hit it.  So, yeah, I think distance definitely helps.   
 Q.  Is there anything that changes when you face a guy you've never played before, you're not familiar with, for you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  I mean, you can't control what they do, so you just try to play your game, play the golf course.  Obviously shoot as low as you can.  So I mean, obviously there's times where you kind of have to play against your competitor.  Say he hits one in the water or something.  But that's completely different.  But you just try not to worry what he's doing and play your game.   
 Q.  What do you think about this course?  Which hole is the most important?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think all of the holes are important.  But the golf course is great.  I think it's in great shape.  The greens are perfect.  They are rolling really smooth.  Just all depends on the pin placements, how many birdies we're going to make.  They can make the pins very difficult and make it hard to get it close.  But they have also set it up where they are very gettable.   
 Q.  This week, there's over a hundred soldiers that are stationed in South Korea that came out to volunteer and support the tournament.  If you had a message, what would you say to the soldiers that are serving, volunteering?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'd like to thank them first of all for coming out to help with the tournament.  They have my support and definitely thanks for their service.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT