PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What did you think of your day?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I had a solid day.  I played, I thought I played really well, just missed a few short putts, really didn't roll it -- I thought I rolled it well, I just didn't make any putts.  All in all, I hit it very well and I'm very pleased with it.  It could have been a really nice day.
Q. With the conditions and everything like that, do you think there's a time to really put up a big number?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I didn't think it was playing that easy out there.  But a lot of guys are shooting some good numbers.  I could have posted a really low one today if I could have just holed a few more putts.  But it's definitely out there for the taking if you're rolling it well.
Q. If you're three or four back tomorrow --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm going to be more than that, but.  I'm going to just have to play my best round of the week tomorrow.
Q. It's supposed to blow about 25, maybe gusting up to, might that --
DUSTIN JOHNSON: That could help.  That could help a lot.
Q. Might not take a really low one if you post something early.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it's still going to -- you still have to shoot a good number.  Blowing 25, you never know.  But we'll just have to see tomorrow.
Q. Martin Kaymer said earlier that if he couldn't win this week, he wanted you to win because of what happened and everything like that.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: That was nice of him.
Q. Wasn't that nice of him?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, that was nice of him.
Q. Have you heard of Lahiri before and have you had a chance to meet him?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, just seeing him, seeing his name on the leaderboard before, but, yeah, obviously he's a good player.
Q. So what do you think will it take tomorrow to for someone to seal the deal?  It's not going to be a straightforward contest.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, depends.  If it blows 25, you're going to have to play some good golf.  So, on this golf course, with the wind blowing that hard, it could become interesting, but it's going to be who drives it the straightest and who holes the most putts.
Q. You might be a handful of strokes back, but not many guys in front of you.  Does that affect the strategy at all?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I need to go out and just get off to a good start and just try to climb the leaderboard as much as I can.  If it's blowing a lot, then every birdie is going to really help.
Q. Is it in some ways, I don't know, maybe a little bit easier to be chasing instead of leading?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, if I'm a couple back, I don't mind.  But I'm going to be a long ways back, so I would rather be in the lead, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT