PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  As I look at your stats here today, two eagles, six birdies, six pars, three bogeys, one quad.  Have you ever had a round like that?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I don't think so.  What a day.  I felt like -- I was even going into the day.  I felt like I was playing good.  And this golf course, if you drive it in the fairway and you control your distance with your irons, you can get a lot of good looks at birdies.   
But after the start I had, I mean, I drove it, just pushed it a little bit to the right on the first hole, one foot in the bunker, one foot out.  I actually thought I hit a great shot from where I was.  I was like 130 hole.  I had a sand wedge.  I hit it and then somehow it went 160 yards over the green and then made a mess of it from there.   
But what a comeback today.  I played really well from then on into the house.  Definitely proud about that.  Obviously a little disappointed to get off to that kind of start, but that kind of comeback is, was key, I think.  It gives me a lot of confidence, a lot of momentum going into the next few weeks.   
 Q.  It definitely bodes well for the future.  It's a numbers game out here, as we all know.  You put yourself in the position to win so many times, it's got to be right around the corner.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm happy with where the game is and what I've done this year, especially in the Majors.  I played pretty well in all the Majors.  So, we still got four really good golf tournaments coming up, and then we'll look ahead to next year.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  I mean, yeah, because I think after that kind of start, your round can go one or two ways and I even told my brother, especially, we made the birdie on 2, which was good.  We then bogeyed 3.  Bogeyed 4.   
So standing on 5 tee, I'm like, let's get this back.  I feel like I'm playing well, just had a couple really bad breaks.  But I feel like I'm playing well.  I think if we can get it to double digits that will be a really solid finish, and actually did a lot better than that.  So very happy with the way I played after the first few holes.   
 Q.  As you look back, did you score because of what happened on 1 or in spite of it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: What?   
 Q.  Did that motivate you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I mean, I was motivated when I was teeing off.  But I knew if I could get off to a good start, I could put a special round together.  Obviously, I did not get off to a good start.  But still played a pretty special round today.  To be 5-over through 4 and shoot 3-under, that's pretty damn good on Sunday in a Major.   
 Q.  How are you walking out of here?  What are you feeling now?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've got a lot of confidence.  I feel like the game's getting better.  It's going to -- I'm looking forward to the playoffs and looking forward to the rest of the year.   
 Q.  What did you think of the course and how it played from Thursday through today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought the course was great.  They did a great job setting it up.  If you're in the fairway, you could attack it.  If you weren't in the fairway, who knows what you were going to make.  So I showed that you can make anything.  I thought they did a great job.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT