PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about how you finished up today.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, yesterday, I just played the par-5s pretty poorly and just a little bit off with the driver.  It seemed like every time I missed the fairway too, it was a chip out.  I was in the lip of a bunker or something.  So I just really couldn't get anything going.   
Finally got some stuff going.  Birdied 9 and 10.  And then pulled my drive a little bit on 11 and went in the bunker and made bogey.  It was just one of those days.  It was just a little bit off, and every time I was off, it ended up in a horrific spot.   
But I came out this morning and hit some good shots, hit some solid shots.  So I'm excited to get back going this afternoon.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, at least that time I could get it out and get it up the fairway.  But, yeah, I mean, I pushed it five yards.  Five yards left, it's in the fairway and I have 4- or 5-iron in.  So, it was just a fraction off and every time I was off, I was in a terrible spot.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I'll go back to the hotel, hang out with my little man for a little bit and then maybe go to the gym.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be here this early on such a long day ahead of you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's okay, I don't mind.  Everybody's -- well, most of us have got to do it.  So, I get up early anyway, so it's not too bad.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I feel comfortable.  I feel -- I hit some good shots coming in.  I feel good with the game.  Just need to hit a few more fairways this afternoon.   
 Q.  Do you ever recall a round where you got so many bad breaks just barely off the fairway?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, but out here it can happen.  You've got to hit the fairway.  That's the key out here is hitting fairways.  So, I'll drive it a little better this afternoon.  I feel good.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's fine.  Still got 36 holes of golf left.  I feel like the game's in good shape.  I feel like I'm putting it well, just got to get a few more chances than I had, today.  But I'll come out this afternoon and if I can drive it in the fairway, I'm going to shoot a good score.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT