THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Seemed like things were just a little bit off today.  What are your feelings on that?DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I didn't feel like I played that bad.  Just couldn't hole the putts.  I felt like I was hitting good putts.  They just weren't going in the hole.  There's nothing you can really do about that.  I was trying, but it was just one of those days where it felt like it played very easy out there today.  Got a little tricky coming in, but the first 11 holes couldn't have played any easier.Q. When you were in the lead and you looked up and (inaudible) do you press a little more?DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I mean, I played my game.  I'm aggressive when I can be and not when I can't.  You can't really worry about what everybody else is doing, you can only control yourself.  I just tried to play my game all day, and I did.  I just didn't hole any putts.Q. It seemed like you got a little off track on No. 5 there in the rough.  You had been hitting it in the fairway all week.DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I just pulled one off the tee.  I think that's the only bad drive I really hit all day.  And then I felt like I hit good shots on 16 and 17, just the wind kind of stood it up a little bit on 16, it came up short in the bunker, and then 17, I thought I hit a great shot, and it just -- I haven't turned one that much into the wind all week, and it just kept turning into the wind, and then it took a bad hop in the bunker, landed right in the corner and it kicked it all the way to the other side.  If it would have just stayed in that front-right corner it would have been a fairly easy bunker shot.  But even after that I thought I hit a great bunker shot to get it where I did, hit a good putt, just hobbled a little bit and missed just right.Q. What's the big picture?  Do you still think you have a shot?DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I'm going to have to put together a special round tomorrow to have a chance.  But I'll definitely be way out before the leaders, so get out early and put a -- get off to a really good start maybe, you never know what happens.  Anything can happen.Q. Are you kind of stunned by this?  You were playing great, looked like you kind of had your stuff today.DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, a little bit.  I felt like I was playing pretty good.  Obviously today is the easier of the three days that we've played golf by quite a few shots.  I played the worst round, and I don't feel like I played that bad.  It's definitely frustrating.Q. Do you think maybe your mindset changed because the course was playing easier?DUSTIN JOHNSON: Not really.  I thought I hit the shots for the most part -- I hit a bad tee ball on 5 and a bad -- I chunked a wedge shot on 7, but other than that, I mean, I felt like I struck the ball pretty well all day.Q. You kind of laughed on that birdie putt on 15.DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, finally, all day, I make probably one of the harder putts I have.  What do you do?  There's nothing I can do about it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT