THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE WOODCOCK: We'll make a start.  We're joined this evening by Dustin Johnson.  Dustin, after a long day a 3-under 69 you come in with as you're leading by one as it stands.  You must be pleased to be taking a lead into tomorrow's third round.   DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm very pleased with my score in round 2.  I guess yesterday when we started the round, it was difficult on the way out, and then coming back in, it even played more difficult.  This morning when we started, it was almost impossible, but managed to hang in there, and then when we just went out and restarted, it was very tough, but managed to make some good pars and then birdie the last hole.  So it was a good way to finish the day.   Q.  It's always very tight in majors.  You had the incident on the 14th this morning with the wind blowing your ball back.  How much effect do you think that could have on your campaign overall given that that might well have cost you a shot and you lost the U.S. Open by a shot?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Fortunately it happened in kind of the end part of the second round, so we've still got a lot of golf to play, so it is what it is.  Can't do anything to change it.  But I came back strong and played 1-under after that to the house on three difficult holes and then 18 was kind of a birdie hole.   Q.  It's hard enough, though, to win a major without that, obviously?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm not the only one that happened to, so it's nothing to worry about now.  It's over with.   Q.  We heard that you'd worked out during the downtime.  What specifically did you do and how did you keep your focus for those 10 hours?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I went back to the room and just laid around for a little while, maybe not -- maybe took a 30-minute nap or something.  I know I dozed off for a minute.  But then got up and went to the gym, just did a light workout just to get the body back moving again, and then had some lunch.  Then hung around for a little bit longer in the room, then went over to the clubhouse.   Q.  A couple of the guys have said that the conditions at 7, even when you were practising before you went out at 7:00, were just as bad as they were while you were playing.  Do you question why they even went out at 7:00?  I think you were quoted at some point.  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I know why they went out.  They wanted to try to play.  If we could play, we could have finished the round and even started the third round, but obviously with the conditions they just wouldn't let us play.  But when they blew the horn to start and then when they blew the horn to stop, to me the conditions hadn't changed at all, it was the same.  I think we all were wondering what was going on.  I know why they did it, they wanted to try to get it in, get us to play as many holes as we could.   Q.  On your first shot of the day, I'm curious why you chose to try and pitch it instead of putt it as your first shot?  And secondly, basically how close were you to marking it when it rolled, and what was the first thing that went through your head, without using language?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, yeah, I mean, I thought about it, but it was an easy pitch.  I chipped it, the wind kind of beat it down a little bit, and it hit the top of the hill.  Just it hit the very top and then kind of checked.  If it flies another foot, it rolls right down to the hole. And then when I went up to mark it, yeah, I got probably an inch from the ground.  I was almost -- my coin was about to hit the ground when it took off.  Then I went to mark it again, and I think it took off again.  And then Jordan was running to his ball.  It was pretty funny.  Yeah, I wasn't laughing too hard.  I was laughing at him.  I wasn't laughing at myself. But yeah, at that moment I was thinking, why didn't I putt it, yeah, for sure.   Q.  All aspects of your game are looking really good right now, but I'm wondering if one aspect in particular is most effective or gets in your head the most in this kind of wind.  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, when it's blowing this hard, it's tough with everything.  Driving the ball is -- especially with the crosswinds, it's really hard to hit the fairway.  I mean, especially coming in, it's almost impossible to hit it in the fairway.  But you know, and then the second shot is tough to get it the right distance.  I mean, control the ball, just because it's blowing so hard.  It doesn't matter if you shape it into it or if you turn it with it, it really moves.  But everything is tough.  The driving, second shots, putting.  I mean, putting is very difficult when it's blowing this hard.   Q.  Being still in the lead at this point probably makes setbacks earlier to take, but at the time on 14 this morning when you did have that setback, were you angry that you were out there?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, maybe a little.  I don't know, I was -- everyone was out there, so it wasn't like I was the only one on the course.  No, I wasn't angry, I was -- I mean, I was almost laughing because the ball was just blowing across the green.  But yeah, I was a little pissed when I made a bogey.   Q.  Were there complaints made by the players when you got back in?  Did any of the players complain about it when you got back in?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I heard a few guys.   Q.  Were you among them?  Did you complain?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I don't know, I don't complain too much, but yeah, I'm sure I said a few things.   MIKE WOODCOCK: Well, Dustin, thank you for joining us.  Well played.  Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT