U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DUSTIN JOHNSON: They do bounce and when they are fast and bumpy, it's tough to get it in the hole.  Whatever the putt did on the last hole, I don't know.  I might have pulled it a little bit.  But still to me it looked like it bounced left.  It's tough.  It's very difficult.   Q.  Do you feel a little bit stunned right now?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Disappointed.  I played really well.  I didn't make any putts today, I really didn't.  I had all the chances in the world.  I'm really proud of the way I hit ball.  Proud of the way I handled myself all day.  I gave myself chances all day long.  If I rolled the putter halfway decent today, which I did roll it well, just any putts go in the hole, I win this thing by a few shots, it's not even close.  It's just how it goes. I thought I played really well.  I did everything that I could.  I tried my damndest to get in the hole I just couldn't do it.   Q.  How do you feel right now?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm disappointed, but also I'm disappointed that I 3-putted the last hole.  Other than that I had a damn good week.  I'm happy with the way I played.  I'm happy with everything in my game right now.  I had a chance to win again a major on a Sunday.  I thought I handled myself very well.  I hit the shots when I needed to.  So I know what it takes to get it done, it's real simple.  I need to get in the hole faster.   Q.  Have you seen Wayne since you putted out?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I have not.   Q.  He might be the one person in this entire grounds who knows what you are feeling right now?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'll see him in a few minutes as soon as I leave here.  I'm sure we'll talk about it.   Q.  The first thing you did was held your son.  DUSTIN JOHNSON: At the end of the day, golf is golf.  I've got my family and that's most important to me.  My trophy at the end of the day is holding up my little man.  I couldn't be more proud of myself and my family.  No matter what I'm going to keep my head high and I'm going to be happy.   Q.  Still okay Father's Day, right?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it still works.   Q.  You hit two great shots to put yourself in position.  What happened on the green there?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: That putt, fortunately, I got to see Jason's putt.  If I wouldn't have saw his putt, I might have hit that thing ten feet by the hole.  I just touched it and it rolled.  It was a tough putt.  It was going to be a difficult putt to make.  I would have thought it would have came down a little bit. I played well today.  I did everything that I was supposed to do.  I hit the ball really well.  I'm proud of the way I handled myself and the way I played today.  I just -- I really struggled getting in the hole today.  I didn't think that I was hitting bad putts.  I thought I was hitting them pretty good and they just weren't going in.   Q.  Is that the story for the tournament, just putts that didn't go in?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: As you can tell, it's very difficult to get them in the hole out there.  The greens were really fast and they were rolling fairly smooth, but it was still bouncing a little bit. I'm proud of the way I played.  I'm most proud of my family.  So I get to hold up my trophy at the end of the day, which was my son.   Q.  Was there ever a point -- when you are a little kid, you imagine this is the putt to win the U.S. Open.  Did any of that flash through your mind?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Of course.  On the last green, just talking to my brother, this is exactly why I'm here.  This is why I play the game of golf.  I've got a chance to win the U.S. Open on the last hole.  I mean, I was trying, just didn't work out.   Q.  To be part of the finish like this and just be in the mix at such a thing like this, to be part of a tournament that was so close, your thoughts on being in that?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, starting the week all you want is a chance to have a chance to win on the back nine on Sunday.  I did that.  I put myself in the position.  I hit the shots I needed to hit.  I just didn't get in the hole quick enough.  I had a lot of putts on the back nine from six feet and in that I missed.  All of them I thought I hit good putts on.  So it's tough, but that's how it is.  It's hard to get it in the hole out here.  You know that starting the day.  I did everything I could.  I played well.  I hit the ball well.  I gave myself looks just wasn't my time.   Q.  What did you see on the last putt, on the birdie attempt and what didn't happen?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I had it just inside right.  I don't know, I hit it, thought I hit it pretty decent just missed left.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT