U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about the round.  Happy with at least getting out of trouble there on the last few holes and keeping a share of the lead?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I thought I played really well today.  Obviously the setup was very difficult.  The golf course is playing really firm and fast.  It's just tough out there. I played really well today, I thought.  A few three-putts.  Other than that I felt like I putted it well, just missed a few short ones.  I made some putts, too.  But really could have been a good day today.   Q.  Could have been a good day but for a few holes?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's still a really solid round.  Even par out there this afternoon is a good score, as you can see.  And I thought I played solid, hit a lot of good golf shots.  So I'm very pleased with the way today went.   Q.  Ready for tomorrow?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm very excited.  I'm right where I want to be.  I'm in position.  If I play well tomorrow we'll see what happens.   Q.  How difficult is it to control your emotions out there, especially after 13?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I knew I was playing well.  I really didn't do anything.  I made a bad swing with an iron, that was really the only bad swing that I felt like I made today.  And I knew if I hit it over there where it was going to go and it's going to be a tough bunker shot.  But I got it back on the green and then I just three-putted. I hit a good putt, too, even on the one I had for bogey I hit a great putt, it just lipped out.  And it's really easy to make bogeys out there or even a double, with the greens as fast as they are and as firm as they are, it's tough.   Q.  What iron was that?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: That was on 13 I hit a 7-iron and I just made a poor swing, hooked it, hit it too far left.   Q.  What did you learn from your 54-hole lead in 2010 that you can take into tomorrow?  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've been in the situation a few times so I know how to handle myself.  I know what it takes to get it done.  And tomorrow just need to go out there and focus one shot at a time.  And we'll see what happens.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT