AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 30, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Dustin Johnson after a 7-under par, 62.   Dustin, if we can get comments on your round today.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:     Yeah, it was obviously a good round.   62 is always a good score, good round.   I really putted well I felt like today.   I putted well.   Really didn't make -- didn't make any mistakes, really. 
I didn't drive it all that great but when I did miss it off line, you know, I had a shot at the green which is always nice and, you know, was able to get it up on the green.   No bogies today for me which is -- which is pretty good.
JOHN BUSH:   Let's go right into questions. 

Q.   You're playing really well.   Have these greens held up pretty well with all the water?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I think the greens are rolling great.   You know, these greens are always good every year.   So even with all the rain and stuff, I think they're still rolling nicely and, you know, with it being so wet it's hard for them to get them real fast.   They're really good speed to be aggressive with your putter and make some putts.

Q.   Dustin, how would you categorize your putting up to this week?   Have you been frustrated with it a little bit?   How would you describe it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, just the last few weeks -- well, I thought I putted really well all through the Masters and then TPC and New Orleans was just a little frustrated with it but, you know, feel a lot better, you know, this week.   I felt like I putted pretty well everyday and then obviously today I putted really well.

Q.   Did you do anything, change anything?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean a little bit.   Just worked on the stroke a little bit, nothing too -- nothing drastic or anything, just, you know, just worked on the stroke just a little bit.

Q.   You played well here every year, maybe your first one you didn't but since then every year.   What is it about this course that suits your eye?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I just -- I don't know.   I've always -- ever since I came here I liked the golf course.   I think it's -- you know, it's a fun course to play.   Got to hit all kinds of shot.   If you're hitting the ball well you can make a lot of birdies.   

             You know, I think this is the first time I've played it when it was soft.   You know, usually it's firm and fast, which I really enjoy.   You know, I'm hitting a lot more drivers off the tee than normal.   Usually the fairways are so firm that I hit quite a few irons off the tees but this week wherever the ball flies is where it's stopping.   Just some -- only difference is hitting a lot more club off the tee.

Q.   Dustin, obviously there's not much they can do with 14 but if it was playing at the regular length, would that be somewhat of an advantage for you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, with it playing a 100 yard par 3, I'm 1-over (laughter).   Probably, I would have to say.

Q.   With that said, the soft conditions, give you an advantage with your length?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I mean yeah, I guess.   The course is playing long, a lot longer than it normally do so it has to help a little bit.

Q.   Dustin, looked like they maybe moved the tees up some at 11 today.   Did you drive that green?   What did you hit in there?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I hit 3-wood just in front of the green.   But, yeah, they had it up the last two days over there on the right side.   I think that left was pretty much under water almost.   So, you know, so they moved it over on the right side.

Q.   I don't think you missed any of your first ten greens.   Did you get into any kind of rough on that stretch and how was the rough?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean yeah, I definitely was in some rough.   Yeah, for sure (laughter).   I was trying to think of which hole I wasn't in the rough.   Yeah, the rough is fine. 
I mean it just depends on where you're at and lot of times, you know -- the rough, obviously haven't been able to cut it.   It's not too bad.   I mean I haven't had any like terrible lies.   It's been sitting fairly nice.

Q.   Obviously you came out smoking, got four birdies first six holes.   You had a couple of back-to-backs and then a par and a couple more consecutives. 
What did that quick start do for you confidence-wise and just did you have to drop any bombs along the way with your putter to make that happen? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, you know, getting off to a good start is always very good for the confidence and out here you feel like you need to make a lot of birdies with the soft conditions.
But, you know, I hit good shot on 2, made birdie.   Hit a really good shot -- two really good shots on 3, you know, made birdie and then hit some really good shots through the first six holes and then after that, you know, not so good for quite awhile. 
But, you know, I had a lot of confidence and all of a sudden it goes away very quickly sometimes and -- but, you know, I just hung in there and kept just trying to get it on the green, get it close to the hole and when I did miss the green or miss a fairway, just tried to make sure I got it back in play where I had a chance to make 4s.   You feel like if you make 4 it's not too bad.   You don't want to make bogies.

Q.   Dustin, the last time I talked to you down at Doral you were working with Butch.   Is there one message that he gives you or one thought that he wants you to think about while you're playing?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, not really.   I mean we generally work on the same things with my swing.   But there's -- you know, there's no real message or anything.

Q.   What do you work on?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I work on take away and my right knee.   Just pretty basic things, nothing too technical or anything like that.   But, you know, always go shoot a good score.

Q.   It's working.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, sometimes.
JOHN BUSH:   Dustin, thanks for your time.   Best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT