ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 22, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   We'd like to welcome Dustin Johnson into the interview room.   He's making his second career start at the Zurich Classic, first since 2008.   So Dustin, first of all, welcome back.   If we can get some comments on being here in New Orleans.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I'm happy to be back.   This year it worked out really well with the schedule, and you know, I hadn't been back since 2008, which I think was my rookie year, and I liked it when I was here any rookie year.   It's a great city, it was fun, lots of things to do, good food, and the golf course is really nice, too.
THE MODERATOR:   Great start to the season for you.   You're making your eighth start this season.   You have six top six finishes, including your win at the Cadillac Championship.   If we can just get some comments on your year up to this point.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   It's been a really good year.   I think it's been very solid.   I've played, you know, really consistent every week, you know, every week, I've been up in contention.   And so you know, I'm very pleased with how this year is going so far.
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Questions.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I've been working pretty hard on the game, and then also I've been working really hard in the gym.   So I think that's the only difference I can see, you know, that╩‑‑ with my game as far as anything that I've done differently this year.   And you know, it's just been more focus in the gym.   That's the only difference I've had this year.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I'd like to answer that question better, but I haven't seen the course since 2008, and I've played a lot of golf courses since then, so I do remember a couple of holes.   I don't remember everything about the course, but I know it's good.   It's usually in good shape. 
But you know, I think every week on TOUR, you know, the guys out here are so good that anyone can win, and so I think that's╩‑‑ I think that's more of the reason than the golf course where, you know, it's just the guys are so good where from top to bottom, I mean whoever is hot that week can win.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I mean I won't know anything until I get on the course.   I just got here last night, and so I'll see the course today and assess it, but the guy that drove me to the hotel yesterday said they got a lot of rain last week.   And then I checked the weather.   Looks like we might could get a little rain this week.   So hopefully the weather will hold off, though.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, he's sleeping pretty much at nighttime, so that's nice.   And so it's been very easy for me, because luckily Paulina, she helps me out and I don't have to do anything at nighttime.   And so that's been great.
But you know, being a dad, it's the best thing in the world, you know.   And maybe that's the difference this year is, you know, golf's not the No. 1 thing anymore.   It's my son and my family.   So maybe that's the difference. 


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   They're here.   Yeah.   They're here.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I just played okay.   It was╩‑‑ you know, it wasn't great.   I didn't have my A game.   At times it was really good, but you know, at times╩‑‑ my misses were bad.   They were just╩‑‑ you know, they were too far off line where, you know, they're╩‑‑ you know, everything has to be going well for you.   You have to be doing everything right.   I thought I chipped and putted it really well, which is something, I said going into the week, if I chip and putt it well, I'm going to contend, which I did, but I just didn't hit it well enough to contend with Jordan.   I mean he played unreal.   So you know, I needed to hit it a lot better to be able to contend with him.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I mean there will probably be a couple of new young guys on the team, for sure.   You know, over the last few years, if you look at it, kind of the same guys have been on the team, you know. 
But you know, we have some really good young players, and I think that they definitely have a chance to be on the team.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I think it's good.   Like Patrick, that was his first Ryder Cup.   He had a great Ryder Cup, played really well. 
You know, the last one I played in, I played really well.   So you know, obviously that was, you know, I'm looking forward to the next one.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean I think it just depends on the person.   For me, it's fine.   It doesn't matter. 
You know, it's a good place to have dinner, you know.   Great restaurants, and you know, there's, and we're staying at Harrah's, so maybe wander in the casino.   But you know, I tend to stay out of places like that, especially when I'm playing. 


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I love those╩‑‑ I love the courses.   I've never played Chambers Bay, so I can't really say I love that course, but hopefully I love it.   The U.S. Open is going to be there. 
But you know, I haven't been there.   But the other two golf courses I really do love.   St. Andrews, my favorite, British Open.   And then Whistling Straits, I enjoy playing there, too.   And I played good the last time we played there.


DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, I'm playing Memorial, Memphis, U.S. Open.   Well, actually Byron Nelson, Memorial, Memphis, U.S. Open.   So that will be my preparation. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Dustin Johnson.   Thank you, sir. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT