MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, 12 was bad.   I got fortunate it hung up there on the bunker, just right of the bunker.   But it was a tough little chip.   And it just rolled up the face and then went in the bunker, which is no good.   And then didn't hit a great putt. 
But I made birdies on 13 and 15.   I hit a lot of good shots.   Hit a great shot on 17, just caught a ‑‑ it just jumped a little bit out of the first cut and ended up making bogey there. 
Then 18, hit a pretty good drive, it just didn't cut, went in the bunker.   And then hit a decent bunker shot.   I hit a really good putt.   I thought I made it.   But it lipped out.   But bogeying the last two holes was really difficult.   I just couldn't get anything going today.

Q.   What about, it looked like you almost had an eagle there.   Just barely missed?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Just barely missed.   I mean, it was a long putt I was happy to see it just go up there close to the hole.   So, but that was a good birdie.

Q.   Was the conditions today, they were pretty good, were the hole locations in such a place where it was just tough to really attack the golf course?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it was tough to get at it.   I thought I played pretty well, just didn't hit it close enough to the hole to make a lot of birdies. 

Q.   Game plan tomorrow?   Going to change anything?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, go out and just try to attack the course.   Tomorrow I really need to make a lot of birdies.   So hopefully I can make a lot of birdies tomorrow. 

Q.   Jordan keeps making birdies ‑‑
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, he's playing really well.   I think I'm a little too far back, but you never know.

Q.   What was your anticipation coming in?   I'm sure you were really probably excited to possibly make a run today. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I got off to a decent start.   Again, 3's got my number out there.   I had it in perfect position all week and I'm 1‑over.   I should be 2‑under at least.   So that hurts. 
But really, not hitting 12 was just, you know, playing okay going in there, knowing I got two par‑5s and can make some birdies.   But 12 definitely stung a little bit.   And then actually bogeying the last two holes hurt.

Q.   It's tough to finish off any tournament, especially a Major.   Everybody goes through it.   What will Jordan be facing do you think as far as mindset?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It will help obviously getting off to a good start always helps.   You just never know.   This course is, it can bite you anywhere. 
So it's not like ‑‑ there's no easy holes.   You got to think about every single shot you hit, where you want to hit it, where you want to land it.   So it's not like ‑‑ it's not easy to attack it.   If he plays like he's playing right now it's going to be tough to catch him.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT