MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Dustin Johnson to the interview room, just finished a second round 67, 7‑under par for the tournament, a round today including three birdies and three eagles.   In fact, Dustin's three eagles on hole Nos.   2, 8 and 15, those three eagles are the most in one round in Masters Tournament history. 
Fantastic performance today, Dustin.   Perhaps you can open up with any comments about the round.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, it was up‑and‑down.   First hole, got off, hit it right down the middle, but ended up making double‑bogey. 
But came right back on 2 and made an eagle.   And then played just pretty solid the rest of the way.   Hit two great shots on 8, made 3 there.
But played well.   Thought I played well all day.   Just made a couple mistakes from the fairway on 1 and 10.   Made bogey on 10 from the middle of the fairway. 
But other than that, I drove it really well today and I hit the shots that I wanted to.   And you know, again, on 15, made another eagle.   So I think that's the first time I've ever made three eagles in a row.   It was pretty special and it was a lot of fun, too. 

Q.   We've got the yardages from the computer, because Masters Tracker is really accurate.   What clubs did you hit on the par5s and were you surprised with some of the numbers you were getting? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, 2, I hit a 5‑iron. 
8, I hit a 3‑iron; and 15, I hit a 5‑iron.   And 13, I hit 8‑iron, made birdie.   But I hit a bad shot there, too, but made a really good up‑and‑down from just left of the green.

Q.   The distance you were getting today, was it surprising‑‑ were you feeling it in some way?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It wasn't like I was hitting it any farther.   It was normal shots that I've had in the past.   Just it's always tough around here to hit the shots the correct distance with the wind.   I mean, the wind was blowing pretty hard today.   So to figure out the wind and get the shot in the right spot, it was tough.   But I just hit some great shots on those holes.

Q.   Could you walk us through 1 and 2 and what the emotions were starting with a double‑bogey and then getting an eagle? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, walking off 1, I was just thinking to myself, it's better doubling the first hole than the last hole. 
Still got a lot of golf to go.   Wasn't like I did anything terrible.   Just it was, hit a bad second shot and thinned it over the green, which I knew I couldn't hit it over the green.   You know, to that flag it's the only spot you can't hit it.
So I wasn't too upset.   I was just‑‑ I knew I had a lot of golf to go and I still felt, I'm playing well and you're going to make a couple of mistakes.   Just hopefully you can get yourself out of it, which I did on that hole.   Came right back and made up for it on No.2. 

Q.   Were you thinking 2 on No. 15, that it was going in? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   I was just glad to see that it was on the green and that I had a putt for eagle. 

Q.   What was that, about a foot? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it was a tap‑in.   So those are always nice around here.   Any time you can tap it in the hole, you'll take it.   I know I will, at least. 

Q.   What do you do with all the crystal goblets you get? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I put them in my office.

Q.   How many do you have now, how many sets? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, after today, I think that's seven eagles I've made here. 

Q.   Which par 4s or par 5s, if any today, did you not hit driver on? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Just No. 10 I think is the only hole I didn't hit driver.   I hit 3‑wood on 10.

Q.   Were you aware of what Jordan was doing out there and did that alter how you were attacking the course at all? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, I mean, I knew he finished at 14.   I think he finished when we were on the front nine.   With the leaderboards and everything out there, it's kind of hard not to see it.   Obviously that's two fantastic rounds.   He's playing some really good golf right now. 
You know, I played pretty well the first two rounds.   Made, you know, a few too many bogeys.   But other than that, I've played pretty solid.

Q.   So what do you think your chances are of catching up?   What's it going to take on the weekend? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   You never know.   Just need to go out and play two good, solid rounds.   Tomorrow is an important day.   Just need to play another good, solid round and put myself in a position to have a chance to win on Sunday.

Q.   It's your sixth trip here; this is the best position you've been in probably by far after 36 holes.   Is this a moment you've been waiting for here at Augusta? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, I always feel good at Augusta.   I think the golf course sets up well for me.   I just never really played that well here. 
But coming in this year, I felt really confident in my game.   I've been playing really good golf and I'm continuing to play good golf. 
I haven't played my best golf the last two days, but I've played pretty good.   Hopefully it's just going to keep getting better. 

Q.   Are you going to do anything different either overnight, tomorrow morning, to try to get off to a better start than you have the last couple days? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, I mean, I didn't do anything‑‑ it's not like I got off to a bad start.   Just I need to maybe‑‑ I don't know what to do, but I'll take the bad start if I keep playing good on the rest of the golf course. 
MODERATOR:   Great performance today.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT