MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I played pretty solid overall.   I felt like I chipped and putted it pretty good this week.   But just my irons.   
   
 Q.   You got at least one good break on No.7?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   The ball should never have stopped there in the first place.   Even when I went up to mark it‑‑  
   
 Q.   You didn't mark it or you did mark it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I marked it and I put it back down.   And it was sitting there forever while I was reading it and then it started rolling, which was nice, but it should have came back there.   
   
 Q.   That helped you a bit.   And then on 8 you hesitated because it looked like you might get another roll?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, it was hanging over.   I thought I made it.   But it was just hanging on the edge.   
I thought I played pretty well today.   Just 16 I hit‑‑ I hit a good shot, I don't know, the wind laid down or turned back in my face, because I hit it solid.   I thought the ball was going to go past the hole and it came up short.   
   
 Q.   Looked like you were pretty patient and scrambled pretty well, waiting to get hot and you did get hot.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I was real patient early, because I just wasn't hitting it very good.   If I would hit it in the correct spots, where I could get it up and down.   And then I played pretty solid from there.  
   
 Q.   You dominated the par 5 all year, like everybody knew you could, I guess you knew it, too?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I did play the par 5s really well this week.   Around here you have to do that, and for me.   You've got to take advantage of your length when you can, because the golf course is tough.   And if you're hitting the ball well you can make a lot of birdies.   If you're not it's really hard to get it close to the hole.   So for me playing the par 5s really well is crucial.   That's what I did this year.   
   
 Q.   Obviously on Friday you were way under.   Can you give me your schedule coming up, and does it include Hootie and the Blowfish or the Charlotte?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   New Orleans, match play and PLAYERS.  
   
 Q.   Reasons why you're not playing Charlotte or going to the Hootie this year as you've done a number of years?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I'm going to the Bahamas next week, that's why.   
   
 Q.   That's a good reason (laughter.)   The rest of the majors this year, the courses, how do you think they set up for you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I haven't played Chambers Bay, but the rest of the course I really like.   
   
 Q.   Would you mind assessing Matsuyama's game for me?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   He's a great player.   He drives it fairly straight.   He hits‑‑ I think he's just a good, solid player.   Putts the ball really well.   Putting, that's a big key of the game.   And he rolls it really nicely.   
   
 Q.   Do you guys talk at all?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT