WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS REIMER:   Congratulations to our 2015 World Golf Championships Cadillac chip winner Dustin Johnson, now at least up with victory in each of the last eight seasons on the PGA TOUR.   Start with some opening comments on what this victory means.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Oh, well, it means a lot.   Obviously it's one of my biggest wins, and especially after a long layoff, to come back out and win in my fifth start means a lot.   I've been working hard on my game and been working hard on me, and so it means a great deal to have some success right out of the gate.   It gives me a lot of confidence, too. 

Q.   You said you've been working hard on your game, working hard on me; which needed more work?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Both (laughs).   My game, it's been okay but I still wasn't hitting the shots that I wanted to for a while.   And then even at Pebble and L.A., I was hitting it okay.   I was getting it around the course, just getting it done. 
But here, you know, you've really got to hit good golf shots on just about every hole.   And you know, I really felt like I swung the ball, really controlled my golf ball very well all week.   Didn't putt quite as well as I'd have liked to all week but holed the putts when I needed to:   Big putt on 11 for par, 14, and then 15. 
So I made them when I needed to.   I didn't make them early in the round when I hit it close on 1 and 2, and I had good putts on every hole it seemed like. 
You know, I really felt like my speed was very good with the putter all week.   You know, I don't think I 3‑putted all week, which was nice around here. 

Q.   What makes the win more meaningful to you:   The long layoff or that it's your first as a dad? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   First as a dad, definitely, is the most special (smiling).   You know, Paulina and Tatum were waiting for me when I got done.   That was the best part of the day for sure. 

Q.   What has the impact, if you can talk about that, having a child and becoming a father and how it's leaked into your game. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It's hard to describe, but just from the first day he's born, your perspective on life completely changes.   Things that were important aren't important anymore.   He's kind of the only thing that's really important, and being there for him and being a role model for him.
It kind of makes life a lot easier I think, just because there's just one thing that's kind of all you think about.   It definitely simplifies stuff. 

Q.   It seemed like you were really patient out there today.   Bubba made that early run, and J.B. was having problems making bogeys.   You just never got rattled, and next thing you know, you were in the lead. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, you know, this golf course is very difficult, and it's windy out there which makes it even more difficult. 
You know, I was swinging really well and didn't make a few putts early.   But I tried my best not to get frustrated with the putter, because I knew I was swinging well.   You just keep hitting good golf shots, keep playing your game and don't worry about what they are doing and we'll see what happens. 
Obviously, you know, on the back nine, I don't know what Bubba did, but I looked up on 14 and I saw the leaderboard.   Me and J.B. were tied for the lead.   I made a big putt there to save par and holed a nice putt on 15, too, for birdie. 

Q.   You mentioned the putt on 14 and 15 but was there a moment where you kind of kicked it into another gear? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, yeah, I mean, 14, I really wasn't paying much attention.   I knew Bubba was playing well.   I knew where I was, I was playing pretty well, too. 
But again, this golf course is so tough, you never know what's going to happen.   You know, the last few holes, they are tough.   You can make an easy birdie or you can make an easy bogey.   So you know, I mean, I felt like I had a chance all day.   Even teeing off, I thought I had a good chance as long as I could just play a good solid round. 
But really, when I really was like, let's get this thing done was on 14, I knew I needed to make that putt; after I made that putt on 14 for par, that's when I really was like, okay, we can do this. 

Q.   Was there a moment when you thought you had another one on 4? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   (Laughter) no, I never thought it was going in again.   But I hit it right at it obviously.   It was a great shot.   I was just happy it was on the green and I could tap it in, especially after the first three holes where I just missed short putts.   I was like, I think I can handle this one. 

Q.   And could you talk about 18 after J.B. hit that bomb? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, 18, I've bogeyed it every day.   I hit it right and a couple of times where‑‑ just playing safe, hitting it out to the right, I knew do I make five from over there at least.
Today, he hit it in the fairway, and then I knew, I'm like, I need to hit this ball in the fairway.   I did pull it a hair but I absolutely smashed it.   I wasn't worried about it getting over the lake.   It was in a perfect spot.   I had a good yardage to hit it.   I was trying to hit it to the back of the green.   That's where I was going is that back right corner. 
I played the hole the best I've played it all week, and it was a good time to do that. 

Q.   You said on TV that you knew you were good, but to be great, something was missing.   Can you elaborate on what was missing? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   You know, I mean, there's a whole lot of things.   But I really think the effort and the time I've been putting in in the gym has helped a lot physically and mentally, and then the time I'm putting in on my golf game, and then obviously in my personal life; I think that's been the difference. 

Q.   I think the top three players finished one, two, three in driving distance for the week.   Can you talk about the importance of being able to hit the ball as far as you guys do on this golf course? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It helps because there's a lot of carries to get it over the fairway bunkers; 300,305,310.   If it's downwind, it definitely helps to be able to hit it that far to get it over the bunkers, because there's not much rough around here.   You don't want to be in the rough, though, because you can't spin the ball and these greens are really firm.   It definitely helps on quite a few holes. 
And the par 5s are fairly long, so if you can get one in the fairway on the par 5s, you can reach them.   But length, I definitely think length here plays to an advantage. 

Q.   You haven't finished lower than fourth on three of the toughest courses since you've come back:   Pebble, Riviera and now here.   What does that tell you about your game, and what do you have going into Augusta this year that you haven't in the past? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, my game is in good form right now.   I feel really confident in my golf swing.   I feel like I'm swinging it really well.   I need to do some work with the putter and short game, especially leading into Augusta. 
But I feel like the swing is really good, and at Augusta, you've really got to hit quality iron shots, control your ball, control the distance and I think I did that really well this week in very tough conditions. 
And I like tough golf courses.   I general really play pretty well on tough courses.   So going into Augusta, it's just another tough course, and I feel like my game is definitely suited for there.   It's always fit my eye really well.   Just haven't played it that great. 
But this year, I'm looking forward to it.   I feel comfortable and I love it, but you know, I've only‑‑ I think I've only had one good tournament there.   So I'm looking forward to it this year. 

Q.   I know you're celebrating a great victory today; I watched the interview with Tom Rinaldi that you did just before you came back to the TOUR.   I want to be clear:   Have you ever flunked a TOUR drug test? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   Thanks. 

Q.   You didn't have the best of weeks last week at the Honda.   What was it that turned it around or was it something you found? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, I was tired going into Honda.   Just flew back, left Sunday night, landed at six in the morning, and went right out and played the Jake at The Bear's Club.   I just was tired.   Wasn't really into it mentally, and obviously it showed.   I think, through two rounds, I think I had like 11 birdies or something.   But I was still like 12 over.   I just wasn't mentally into it.
I felt like I really was swinging well.   I just, you know, even at Honda, I just wasn't into it, that's all.   But I still felt like I was playing pretty well, even though I shot terrible scores. 

Q.   Any victory obviously is very special.   Talk a little bit about having your brother on the bag this week, and what that meant to you?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was great.   He was on the bag on my last win, too, at HSBC in China.   That was only I think his second week on the bag and we won there. 
But it's always special.   Me and my brother are best friends, and so I love him being out there with me and spending all that time, because you've really got to like your caddie because you spend an awful lot of time with him.   Fortunately me and my brother get along very well, and he does a great job.

Q.   There's a lot of questions about your time off, and as just asked, a lot of the stuff you've talked about, but at the same time, it seems like you haven't been really forthcoming and there's a lot of questions about it.   Is there a reason why you haven't been as forthcoming with the issues that you've had and what you did during the time off? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, because it's personal and frankly, I just‑‑ it's not really anybody's business. 

Q.   Along those lines, but you take a leave indefinitely, or a break from the game; what did that feel like?   Did it feel like punishment, or if it doesn't, self‑punishment, to not be playing in that time till you got to a point‑‑ plus the baby being born, but till you're ready. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I enjoyed it.   I got to spend a lot of time with Paulina and help her as much as I could through her pregnancy, and then the birth of our son.   I really enjoyed being able to be home and not having to leave or do anything.   So it was actually really nice. 
I was in the gym every single day, every morning, and then spend the rest of the time either I would go practice a little bit or just hanging out with Paulina.

Q.   You said you lost 12 pounds; did you need to lose those 12? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, I was getting a little chunky but (laughter).

Q.   How would you characterize the reception you had back from players?   Have you noticed a difference one way or the other? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I think it's been really great.   All the guys have been really, really great, and seemed like they were excited that I'm back and all my buddies, we're still good buddies.   I kept in touch with a lot of them, you know, through the time that I had off. 
But everybody seems, you know, couldn't be better.

Q.   Was that important to you or were you expecting‑‑ not expecting, but were you wondering? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, yes and no.   I mean, what's important to me is sitting right over there and the other one's not here right now.   He's probably in the car seat, but that's what's important to me now. 
Obviously friends are important and family is important, but it was great to be with all the guys.
CHRIS REIMER:   I'm sure you had goals after your break, winning in the fifth tournament back, does that change how you look at the rest of the season? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, still this year, every week that I come out, I want to prepare to win.   The only week that I really didn't prepare well would have been last week at the Honda.   I just wasn't prepared for that week.   But every other week, I felt like I've really prepared very well and played good. 
So this year, just going into every event, try to prepare to win. 

Q.   Going back to 18, you have a one‑shot lead on a hole that's a hard driving hole very reminiscent of Cabrera at Oakmont and what Brooks did at Phoenix when you have to man up and belt it.   Curious what you were thinking standing on that tee? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Luckily 17 kind of same wind, and then the bunker on the right is about the same carry as the water, and I hit it with the same wind, hit it right over the bunker. 
And so I knew if I was aiming kind of right where I hit it, I knew if I hit it there and hit it good, that I was going to cover the water.   But if I came out of it, obviously it was going where I hit it every other day, which is right of the cart path in the trees, which is no good, either. 
I knew he was in the fairway, and I'm like, I've got this where I have to hit a good drive, so I just tried to make the same swing that I did on 17 and piped one.   Probably best drive I hit all week. 

Q.   Have you ever thought about failure over a shot? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, sure, I don't know, imagine, [] like don't hit this one in the water.   Yeah, I think those things all the time (laughter).   I was thinking the same thing on that drive:   Don't hook it (laughter). 
CHRIS REIMER:   Great win, congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT