WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Hole‑in‑one at 4, give us your version.
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, I had a great number for a 7‑iron, and actually I wasn't even ready‑‑ I pushed it just a hair right.   It was still a really good shot obviously and got lucky it went in. 

Q.   You went on to birdie the next hole, the fifth. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I hit two good shots just short of the hole.   Made a nice putt there at the fifth.   I really played well all day today.   Just didn't roll the putter that great.   I had a lot of really good looks all day long.   I thought I should have made a few more than I did. 

Q.   Do you have a really good feeling about tomorrow?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   This golf course is tough, so good out and put some pressure early and you never know what will happen. 

Q.   Many seasons in one day, but an adventurous round turns into 69, 3‑under. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I played really good all day long.   Obviously highlight on No. 4, making a 1, that's a tough hole.   I hit a really good shot, pushed it a hair.   I was aiming at the flagstick left but ended up going right in.   That was a bonus. 
But all day, I really struck the irons well, controlled my distance well.   Had great looks at it all day long.   Didn't roll the putter all that great but overall, it was a really good day.

Q.   What club was it that you made the hole‑in‑one with? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   7‑iron.   I hit 7‑iron.   It was 206 or something, maybe a little longer, I'm not sure.   I don't remember the exact yardage.   I just know where I was trying to land it. 

Q.   How many of those have you made? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I think out here, that was my fifth one.   I think I've got ten overall.

Q.   The course, how was it playing?   We saw all the wind changes and the weather coming.   Is it getting any softer?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   The greens softened up a little bit.   With the moisture on them, I didn't adjust that well.   The putts were breaking a little bit more than they have been.   I missed a lot of putts just on the right side of the hole.   
I just didn't adjust well to the conditions with the putter, but the golf course, I mean, it plays difficult no matter what.   But the wind was blowing out there pretty hard, but if you're striking it well, you can still hit some good shots. 

Q.   Talk about the fourth hole?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Obviously that's a really tough hole, tough par 3, but if you get a one there, obviously that's a bonus.   Yeah, I just hit a really good shot.   Actually, I pushed it just a hair but I wasn't aiming right at the flag.   I was aiming just a fraction left of it and it rolled right in.

Q.   When you get the inkling that this might have a chance or do you just wait for the crowd? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, you can kind of‑‑ obviously I could tell it's going right at it from back of the tee but it kind of goes up and over the hump and I could hear them get loud and then obviously when they started screaming, I knew it was in. 

Q.   How pleased are you with your round today in the conditions that are out there?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I'm very pleased with it.   I thought I played really well all day today.   I struck my irons really good.   I had a lot of good looks at birdie.   I didn't roll the putter that well.   I mean, I rolled it pretty good but I just don't think I adjusted too well with the conditions, with the greens getting a little wetter, the ball is breaking a little bit more than they have been the last couple days.   I just missed a lot of putts just on the low side of the hole. 
But other than that, I'm very happy with my round. 

Q.   How much did the course change with the change in wind direction today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, yeah, it's definitely a different golf course.   You've just got a lot of different clubs off of the tees than you have been hitting.   But you know, it played okay today.   I mean, it played tough.   It's always going to play tough no matter which way the wind blows.

Q.   Was it uncalled for for J.B. to steal your thunder, 20 minutes later, he aced the same hole. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I didn't know that but that's still pretty cool.

Q.   Going to be about six shots up, the way he's playing, what do you want to do tomorrow to put a little heat on him? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Just got to get off to a good start.   This golf course is very hard, and just get off to a good start and try to get a little pressure on him early. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT