NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 22, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was a good week.   Obviously bogeying 17 and then I thought I hit a great putt on 18.   That cost me a little bit.   But it's good to be back out and good to be in the hunt and having a chance to win. 
He putted well all day.   Even that putt he had on 10, I was already in there pretty close and going to make birdie.   I played with him today, so he was rolling the putter well.   He made a lot of key putts, and it was no surprise to see that one go in. 
It was a great tournament.   I had a lot of fun, but obviously I would have loved to make that last putt to keep it going. 

Q.   Did you feel that you left any out there today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I played really well.   But obviously 17 hurt.   I had a 60‑degree in from the middle of the fairway and hit it in the bunker and made bogey.   That one, and the putt on 18, I hit a great putt.   Thought I made it but just burned the left edge.   Overall, I'm very happy with the week and look forward to playing next week. 

Q.   It's just been a few weeks back, but the state of your game‑‑ this quickly, pretty pleased? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I am.   I am.   Obviously it's just going to get better, so I'm looking forward to the rest of the season. 

Q.   After regulation play ended, Wayne Gretzky came up to me and said, "It's so hard to win out here."   It is a difficult job to do and you gave it three extra holes and pushed it to the limit?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I played solid today.   Just 17 kind of cost me a little bit, bogeying that hole with a 60‑degree from the fairway.   That really hurt. 
And then 18, I hit two great shots in there and hit a good putt, too.   I watched Furyk's ball right before I putted, just hung out right, so I hit mine in the right edge perfect.   It was going right in the middle with a foot to go and broke hard left. 
And then in the playoff, I hit some good shots.   He just holed a long putt on me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT