AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 15, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     66.   You got to feel good about things. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I do.   The bogey on 15 kind of really hurt a little bit.   Then I hit a great shot on 16 just kind of spun back.   And hit a good putt there, just barely missed it. 
Then birdieing 17 and 18, that's always good to finish off a week. 
So at least finished the week on a high note.   Then, obviously it's a good solid finish.   And second week back out playing and it keeps feeling better and it's getting close.   It's going to be really good here soon. 

Q.   I think that's the key.   Just your second week, good finish.   What is it you've been working on or what do you think you need to kind of get back to where you were?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Still ‑‑ wedges can get a little better.   I think I'm striking the ball really nicely.   I drove it pretty well this week, too. 
So get the wedges a little bit better and I think that will definitely help. 
And obviously you can't ever hole too many putts.   This week, especially the first round, I probably hit it the best of any round in the first round and only shot 2‑under. 
I hit it just close all day and didn't make anything. 
So I'm looking forward to next week.   I really like that golf course and I'm playing really well right now.

Q.   Get much sleep this week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, well, my lady and my son are at home, so I did get some sleep this week.   But I can't wait to get home and see them tonight. 

Q.   Great Sunday 66 at Pebble.   Just your second week back, how pleased are you with the week?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I'm pretty happy with it.   I thought I played pretty well this week.   Just the first couple days just struggled on the greens a little bit. 
But today I played pretty solid most of the day.   I holed a great putt on the last hole for ‑‑ made a really good four there. 
So to finish off the week really strong, I'm very pleased with it and I'm definitely looking forward to next week.

Q.   How do you carry over momentum for this week to keep things started for the rest of the year?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I really like these golf courses the first few weeks of the year.   And obviously.   I really like this place, and I tend to play well here a lot. 
So, I feel‑‑ my game feels really good right now.   It even felt good last week and I missed the cut by a shot.   But I thought I played really well.   I just made some mistakes mentally and just was a little off with the short game the first round. 
But my short game's feeling good, my touch is coming back, and I really feel like I'm swinging well.   So, I think that next week's going to be a good week too.

Q.   After the time away, what's the most rewarding part of just being back out here in competitive golf?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well I love the game and I love to compete, so just getting out here in the competition. 
And then getting those juices flowing coming down the last few holes today.   And I know it was nice to birdie 16 or I mean 17 and 18 to finish.   So that was pretty good.
АФ



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT