NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 22, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Few weeks back after a little break and you're back in contention.   How does that feel?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It feels good.   Obviously it was a good, solid week.   Feel like I played solid all week.   Even today, I played really well.   Obviously 17 cost me a little bit, making bogey out of the middle of the fairway with a lob‑wedge.   You just can't do things likes that, especially if you want to win.   
And then 18, I hit two great shots into 18.   And hit a great putt, too.   I thought I made it for sure.   Two feet from the hole, I thought it was in the middle, and it just snapped hard and went across, hit the left edge.   
And then I was pleased with my play in the playoff.   Obviously hats off to James, making a long putt like that.   I played with him all day, so I knew he was rolling the putter really well.   It was no surprise.   He made a lot of putts today.   
But, you know, I hit a good putt, too.   I thought I just misread it.   I had it breaking right and it broke left.   That's how it goes.   
   
 Q.   Talk us through 10 in the playoff.   You hit it a little long left and hit a brilliant approach shot.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   You know, walking up there, I saw Paul's ball, who I thought was in the best shape, shooting great out of the green straight up the fairway.   James had a better lie than I did because he was a little on the upslope.   I thought I had the toughest shot, but man, did I hit a good one.   
Can't hit it any closer than that, I don't think, from there.   I definitely wouldn't want it over.   But you know, my short game was pretty good all week, solid I thought.   Chipped and putted it pretty well.   This golf course, it's just tough.   
And you know, you've got to drive it in the fairway, which these fairways when it's firm like this are hard to hit.   They sit at weird angles so it's tough to hit the fairways.   But I thought I managed my game really well this week, and I'm really looking forward to next week and the weeks after.   
   
 Q.   Talk about this giving you confidence going into the rest of the season?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I knew I was playing good coming in, even in San Diego.   Just was a little rusty in San Diego and obviously that wasn't too much of a surprise to me.   But you know, it's really nice to know, especially after not playing for a little while, coming back and having to hit some clutch shots and make some putts and know that it's still there and I've got it.   
So you know, I'm looking forward to the rest of the year.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT