NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2015
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Why don't we start by talking about your round today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, I thought it was pretty good.   It's playing difficult for sure.   The greens are really firm and fast.   But hit a lot of good shots and hit a lot of good putts.   Anything under par out here I think is a pretty solid score.   
   
 Q.   You had a great finish last week.   Why don't you talk about strategy coming out of that and into this year?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I played good on Sunday last week.   I feel like my golf game is coming around and getting back into the swing of things.   I'm pretty confident with my game right now.   
   
 Q.   What part of you‑‑ what needs the most work?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I don't know, everything feels pretty good.   I got a new driver in play, so hitting the R15.   It's really good.   I just have to get a little more comfortable with it on the course.  
   
 Q.   How big was Spy and then Pebble, after having a day in which is looked like the hole was as big as a nickel for you?   That can get in your head pretty quick.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I played well, really well at Monterey.   Just I thought I hit a lot of good putts, too.   Just nothing would go in the hole.   So wasn't like I was hitting bad putts.   When you're hitting bad putts and you're hitting it well, that really frustrates you.   
I knew I was stroking it well, so I just kind of tried to hang in there and not get too frustrated.   
   
 Q.   Still good to see them go in though, isn't it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I putted a little better at Spy and Pebble.   Felt a little more comfortable on those greens.  
   
 Q.   On Tuesday, playing with JP McManus and Shane Lowry, you holed a lot of putts there, as well.   Is there something in your putting stroke; are you happy with it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I feel like I'm rolling it really well.   I feel like I'm hitting it where I'm looking.   At Pebble and spy, those places, I'm comfortable on the greens.   I'm just not real comfortable at Monterey.   I've struggled every year there I think.   
   
 Q.   Do you get out here much outside of the tournament?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, I didn't come.  
   
 Q.   Have you been invited?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, but it's a long drive.   It's like an hour.   It's a long way to drive to play golf when I can pull out the‑‑ go right out the backyard and I'm in Sherwood.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier you were expecting to contend this week in and general.   What do you make of the next three days ahead of you?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I thought it played tough today.   There were no easy shots.   With the greens being firm and the pin placements, so I feel really good right now.   I feel comfortable in my position.   So just go out there and try to put up a good score tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   High ball flight‑‑ is that an accurate assessment with some of your driving?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, I try to hit it just‑‑ you know, if I hit it high, it's on purpose.   It's a tough fairway to hit, so kind of want it to land soft.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT