U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just wasn't very good today.  I actually drove the ball pretty well, especially through the first 12, 13 holes.  Just didn't hit quality iron shots.  Out here, you got to hit really good shots and I just couldn't do that and didn't take advantage of 3 and 5, where I had a good number in.  Just struggled a little bit today. And then obviously making three bogeys in a row on 15, 16, 17.  But at that point, I was just trying to get into the house.
Q. How big a deal do you think 3 and 5 were?  And if you had made two birdies there, what that might have done for you?DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously it gives you some momentum and I needed to get some momentum.  I just felt like I never got any going. I made birdie on 10, but that was kind of all the birdies. I hit a good drive down 11. Then again with a perfect number, I block a wedge 30 feet.  It's hard to make 30-footers out here.
Q. How difficult is the pressure on a guy, a leader, in conditions like this?DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's very difficult, but it was getable out there today if you played really good.  But I just didn't play very well.
Q. Is there any frustration of trying to catch him all week?DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I never got really frustrated.  I was more frustrated with myself.  Finally got it in the fairway and then my irons weren't going where I was looking.  But for not playing what I think was very good at all, I definitely didn't have my A game, I still had a really good finish and I'm very pleased with that.
Q. Talk about Martin, just how impressive his performance has been this week based on the conditions, based on what you saw out there.DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, he just played really solid.  Hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens, and never really got himself in any kind of trouble.  So if you play four solid rounds of golf, I can see that score.
Q. On No. 5, did that long wait you had waiting for the group to clear, did that impact your chip shot?DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I just hit a bad chip shot.  It's tough, if you don't hit them perfect around these greens, you're going to hit a bad shot.
Q. That wait didn't impact you?DUSTIN JOHNSON: It didn't.  Just hit a poor chip.
Q. Are you playing next week?DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes, I am.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT