U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You thought you had that one on the last one?DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I hit a good putt there.  I had a lot of putts today that looked like they were going in.  It was tough out there today.  I didn't exactly have my "A" game, either.  It was really hard to get close to these flags.  But I did a really good job of never leaving myself in a really bad spot.  Even if I was chipping, I had a good look to get it up there close to the hole and I did that very well today. And then I never put too much pressure on myself as far as my long putts.  My speed was really good today.  It looked like they were all going in.  And then put it up really close to the hole where I could tap it in.
Q. Do you play within yourself knowing that?DUSTIN JOHNSON: I wasn't striking it that well.  I wasn't driving it well.  So I really just -- I tried to play conservative, and try to make pars.  And I did have a little stretch there on the back where I hit some good shots and had some good looks at birdies, and made a couple.
Q. Figure you're going to have to change that tomorrow, being the last day, regardless of what you take out there?DUSTIN JOHNSON: I need to hit it better tomorrow if I want a chance to win is the bottom line.  I have to hit it better.  I have to control the golf ball a little bit better and get more looks at birdies.
Q. Do you think Myrtle Beach, that experience of growing up there is any help whatsoever here?DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  (Laughter).
Q. The sand?DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.
Q. Yesterday, I mean, Martin did something historic with the two 65s.  It looked like he was possibly going to run away, although we still have the weekend to play.  He's 7-under now.  It's a five-gap deficit for you, do you feel it tomorrow going out?DUSTIN JOHNSON: Anything can happen.  It's a U.S. Open.  The golf course is a lot firmer and a lot faster.  Looks like the weather is going to be great. And today I think every single flag out there today was tough.  There wasn't an easy one on the golf course today.  It was a lot harder to make birdies, and it was very difficult around the greens if you got out of position.
Q. Are you feeling good about the way you're playing --DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm feeling good.  I feel like I'm rolling the putter good.  My short game is really good.  I just need to get a little bit more rhythm and swing and hit it a little bit more quality shots.
Q. Do you feel with a five-gap deficit that you could possibly come to him or is he going to have to come to you?DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've yet to feel like I've played a great round of golf.  It's in there. Hopefully tomorrow is my great round.  I've been playing pretty well on Sundays this year.  Hopefully I continue that.  I definitely just need to go out and drive it a little bit better and hit some better iron shots.  But I think if I drive it better, obviously it gives me a little bit more confidence to hit better iron shots coming out of the fairway than out of the native areas, which I did the other day.
Q. Talk about the decision on 7, and the left-handed shot, is that anything you've practiced?DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I don't practice that one.  But it just hung up.  There was a little clump of pine straw that was just underneath the bush and the ball just got caught on it, so it was kind of -- the ball was kind of sitting up in the air a little bit.  And there was no way I could hit it right-handed.  So it was just one of those I just hit and hoped and it came out okay and got just in front of the green, which I was very pleased with.
Q. What club did you use?DUSTIN JOHNSON: 9-iron upside down.  Hey, I got it back to the fairway, that's all I was trying to do.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT