THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  DUSTIN JOHNSON: I played really solid.  From start to finish.  I felt like I played really good.  I rolled the putter pretty well.  I didn't really make any long ones.  The longest one I made, probably about a 15, 20-footer on 11.  But everything else was six, seven feet.  I just struck it really well today.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, I couldn't be happier with the position I'm in.  I've still got two more days of golf to play.  Depending on the weather is how the scores will play.  I thought it was really tough out there today.  And I still was able to shoot 7-under, which was a very good score around here this afternoon.   Q.  Talk about the conditions today.  DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was definitely a lot more breezy today.  But yesterday I played in the morning, the wind was blowing, but it wasn't blowing very hard.  And it seemed like yesterday was kind of difficult to get the direction of it, because it seemed like it switched on every hole.  Today was pretty steady breeze out, same direction all day. But the course definitely got drier and faster and definitely played tougher.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's fine.  I'm glad I'm in the last group.  I'm going to go out and play my game.  I can't worry about what he's doing.  Just go out there and try to shoot a big number.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, you don't get -- this golf course doesn't allow you too many chances to let the driver go.  You don't get really -- even some of the downwind holes you've still got an iron position or you can hit a driver.  I got to hit a couple.  17 was probably -- I was trying to get down there a good ways.  But other than that, I felt like I've really driven it well and hit some pretty good drives out there, even into the wind, got them out there a long way.  But the golf course is running right now.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm always excited.  I had a lot of fun out there today, just tried to stay relaxed.  I'm swinging really well.  I feel really comfortable over the golf ball.  So I'm looking forward to it.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, yeah -- well, yesterday, for example, I hit the ball really well yesterday.  I just really didn't score that well.  I didn't make any putts.  I didn't really hole any putts.  But today I really felt like I took my time on the greens, just to make sure I was really precise with my reads and I didn't trust my reads yesterday.  I just never really felt comfortable over them.  But today I really studied my putts really well and tried to pick out a line and just stick with it.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DUSTIN JOHNSON: Of course, the fans have a little more hometown -- the fans here are great.  They've always been great to me.  It's always a lot of fun playing here.  I feel like I've got a lot of support.  I'm looking forward to it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT