CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We have Dustin Johnson here with us in the interview room after a 5‑under par 65 with no bogeys.   Dustin, those rounds are always nice, if we can get some comments on your day? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it was just a really solid day.   You know, drove it well, hit a lot of fairways.   I think I hit every green but the last one.   In the fairway I got in the divot on the last hole, and I thought I hit a great shot.   I think it flew just on top of the bunker.   And I think if it flies another foot, it's in there close. 
Just hit a lot of really solid shots in, had a lot of good looks at birdie on the back nine.   Shot 4‑under on the front.   Then the back nine I think every hole I had a really good look at birdie 15 feet or closer on every hole.   Just didn't make anything except for 16, but I hit that one to about a foot.

Q.   This course might not seem like it suits a long hitter too well, but how do you feel like your game sets up to it? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Oh, I think it sets up well.   This course kind of forces you to drive it, kind of everybody drives it close to the same spots, but it's fine.   I'm hitting 3‑iron off most tees.   I hit driver‑‑ I hit three drivers, three or four drivers max out here, so it's fine.   Every other hole I'm hitting 3‑iron and I hit a couple 3‑woods.   I hit a 3‑wood on 18, but I'm hitting irons off every other tee, which I don't mind at all.

Q.   You're on the verge of going real low.   Is that really low score still out there do you think? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, it's all about making putts.   A lot of these flags it's hard to get really close to.   But I hit it really solid and had a lot of ten‑footers today.   Just didn't hole as many as I would like to.   But can't say I didn't‑‑ I wasn't doing anything bad.   They're just burning the edges.   But it doesn't seem like anybody ever shoots too, too low here.

Q.   It seems like as mentioned before that some courses play to your strengths from a distance standpoint.   But this course seemed to play to your strengths from a hitting greens standpoint because you rank pretty high in that category too. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, like I said, I'm hitting 3‑iron off just about every tee and still have wedge to an 8‑iron is about the longest I had in to a par‑4.   You know, that makes things pretty easy.   As long as I'm hitting my 3‑iron straight.

Q.   Could you talk about this is your first tournament here since L.A., just getting used to the course again and the field.   It seems like you've been playing a while now. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it's exactly as I remember, except for maybe‑‑ for some reason I didn't remember number 3 at all.   But the rest of the holes seem the same.   But, you know, it's a golf course where you need to play from the fairway.   It's tough to hit at these greens.   They're not real big.   But it's hard to hit at them when you're hitting out of the rough.

Q.   Did you think the pin placement was especially tough today given the wind situation? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, I thought they were pretty fair.   I think this is only the second, maybe third time we've played here, and it's been a long time since I played, so I don't really remember all the pins.   But they seemed fine to me.

Q.   The first round is obviously great to be the leader in the clubhouse, but what is the key to sustain it the next three days do you think? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing.   I've got a pretty good game plan for the golf course in off the tee.   So I'm going to stick to that, just trying to keep getting birdie looks on every hole.

Q.   Dustin, a lot of days the wind kicks up in the afternoon here.   Today it seems like maybe things flipped around.   The afternoon guys might have gotten some of the quiet.   How does the wind seem like out today?   It seemed like it might have been quieter when you played today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was still blowing pretty good.   It blew about the same all day long.   You know, obviously if it's blowing from the same direction for the most part, when it's real windy, you've got to get a good beat on it, how it's going to affect the ball.   I think I did a really good job of that today.

Q.   You were talking about your game plan, given the fact that you don't have a lot of experience here, when did you come up with that game plan, because you don't have anything to draw off of? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yesterday (laughing).   It was my practice round yesterday, so, that was my game plan.

Q.   Is it more difficult when you don't have experience on a course to kind of put that into play right away and know if it's going to work? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I played here before, so you kind of‑‑ I didn't play great, but I made the cut.   But any golf course, there is a way to play it.   I just try to‑‑ for me, it's all about just trying‑‑ I just want to get in the fairways.   I hit my irons pretty well, and I seemed to hit it close a lot.   So when I'm hitting out of the fairway, I'm going to be tough.

Q.   I'm just curious what you hit on 5 off the tee? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   3‑iron. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT