FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 5, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with the first round?  
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I mean anytime you shoot under par out here it's a good score.   Played really well today.   Missed a few short putts but the greens are tough.   You know, good solid round.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a game plan at the beginning of the week?   Would you take 68 four straight days?  
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, probably.   It takes 68 the first three days, you know, you're going to be right there with a shot to win on Sunday.   You know, like I said, anything under par out here is a good solid round and today was a good start to the tournament.   
    I'm pleased with it.  
   
 Q.   The wind is kicking up.   Did it really affect your game at all or does it look the way it feels?  
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   The wind was blowing all day.   So -- but it wasn't real gusty.   It was nice but, you know, this course the wind always blows and it always plays pretty tough.   The fairways are tight.   I hit a lot of fairways today.  
   
 Q.   When you look around, there's weather coming in, is it one of those things where you just exhale and go, "Look, I'm glad I got my round in, I don't have to worry about delays and what they have to deal with later this afternoon"?  
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   It's nice to play early today, get it in but, you know it looks like we've got some weather this afternoon or maybe tomorrow.   You just got to chill-out.   Hopefully we'll tee off tomorrow at the normal time.   If there's a delay or something, adjust for it.  
   
 Q.   Dustin, you seem a little bit more confident.  
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I like this golf course a lot.   It's tough but, you know, you shoot good score under par, I mean you shoot anything under par you don't get lapped by the field or anything.   So, you know, it's always a fun place to play and they do a great job here at FedEx.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT