WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you assess your play this morning? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was good.   I hit two good drives on 7 and 8.   I drove the ball beautifully yesterday.   I hit a lot of great drives right down the middle of the fairway.   So that's definitely key out here is you've got to find the fairways.   The fairways are narrow and a lot of bunkers.
But it's playing difficult.   There's a lot of wind blowing out there, and you know, you've just got to hit it solid and try to keep it on the right side of the hole.   You know, I did that pretty well and you're going to have to make some good up‑and‑downs, which I did, to keep my rounds going early yesterday.   I made a good up‑and‑down on the second hole which is No. 11 and made a good up‑and‑down finishing the day on 9. 
I actually hit a pretty good shot, actually pitched on the sprinkler head and went over the green.   Made a good up‑and‑down and gave me some momentum going into this afternoon. 

Q.   Some of the fairway bunkers out here are now designed and hazards are put into play; it's advantageous it seems like for big hitters off the tee like yourself.   How much is that an advantage for you, or is it one? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, it just depends.   On some of the holes with the way the wind is blowing, you have some advantage and some holes, it's really not.   A lot of these holes, you try to fit it in between bunkers, so you've got to hit it a certain distance. 
But, you know, there's a couple holes with the wind and if they are moving the tees up, I can fly the bunker.   A lot of times you're trying to fit it in between. 

Q.   3‑under par 69, is that a good round?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It's a very good round.   This golf course is very difficult without the wind, and then you have a 20‑mile‑an‑hour wind blowing, it makes it really difficult.   I could be happier with 3‑under par.   I played solid all day, drove it really well and holed some key par putts, 6‑ , 8‑footers in the middle of the round to keep you going.   Just I didn't really take advantage of No. 10 and No. 12 yesterday starting out and made pars on both of those but other than that, I played really, really solid all day.

Q.   Do you feel your prodigious length is a big advantage?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It just depends.   Obviously you'd like to say, it's always an advantage, but a lot of times out here on this golf course with the re‑design, you are trying to fit it in between bunkers and spots.   But you know, sometimes when it's downwind, I can carry the bunkers no problem.   But you've still got to drive it really straight and that's what I did.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT