THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your impressions of this golf course down the stretch in terms of wind, was it gettable?   I know you didn't have your best day.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, it's definitely gettable.   It's taken me‑‑ if you hit a good tee shot, you've got to hit two good shots on 16, but I mean, I hit two good ones in there about 25 feet or whatever.   And then 17, 17 is straight downwind, which is nice, but I still don't know how my ball went over the green there.   I mean, I hit sand wedge and it flew 150 yards.   I mean, it's just not possible.   
You know, I hit a sand wedge just so I didn't go over, and I still went over.   But yeah, it's definitely gettable, and then obviously 18 playing downwind helps a lot.   
   
 Q.   Your playing competitor Phil Mickelson missed another cut.   He's not playing well.   He said he's taking less events off to be best prepared for Pinehurst.   What is it about his game from your perspective that's not clicking?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, he really didn't play that bad.   Just didn't really get anything to go in the hole.   He hit a lot of great putts.   It wasn't like he was off.   It was just he just burned the edge.   In the last two days there were a lot, 15 or 16 putts that could have gone in the hole that didn't.   It's not like he's off by much, just didn't‑‑ wasn't going for him.   
   
 Q.   He hasn't had a top 10, and this is the first time in 10 years he didn't have a victory until May.   Playing with him throughout this season, have you noticed anything different?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   I mean, he's driving the ball well, he's hitting the ball pretty good.   Just a couple bad breaks and just‑‑ you know, with the putter, if it's not dead on, it's tough.   But he hit a lot of great putts, just none of them went in the hole.   Like I said, I couldn't tell you how many looked like they were going in that didn't.  
   
 Q.   This golf course right now because the greens are so soft, how different is this golf course than previous years?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   You know, the greens are a little bit softer, but they started to firm up a little bit this afternoon.   You know, they're just a hair softer, but they're rolling great, and they're just a hair slower than normal.   But other than that, the golf course is playing the same.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT