AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   10‑under in the mix, Dustin.   Tell me about your round today. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I played really well today.   It was tough out there, I hit a lot of great shots.   I made a few bogeys and missed a short one on 14 for birdie, but other than that I played great.   I had a lot of opportunities and I'm very pleased with the round.   I would like to have the two par‑3s over.

Q.   In the era of many golfers actually shying away from pro‑am and there's very few any more, you've embraced this tournament and you have done excellent here.   What is part of your success here?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, I just enjoy this event.   Especially if you have a good group.   I've always had good partners.   I played with Wayne the last two years and then before that I played with my partner, Joe Rice, and just always had good partners and fun to play golf with and so that makes a big difference.   If you enjoy the people you're with out here, even if you're out here for a long time, it's not too bad.   And I enjoyed being out here.

Q.   What did the four rounds‑‑ which of them are you most happiest with and what today was, if there were any negatives, what were they?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I'm very pleased with the round.   I made nine birdies.   But I just hit a few poor shots on the par‑3s.   I bogeyed 5, 7 and 12.   So‑‑

Q.   Get a couple of those back and, who knows?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah. 

Q.   Right now as it stands, if you look at the board, you go, man, just slide back a little bit to us slide on back to 10, right?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, you know, obviously that would be nice, but I think Jimmy is playing very well right now and so I think it's going to be tough for him to come back.   I think I see him getting a victory today.

Q.   So you perceive him winning and you of course, would like to win, but you're okay to get on the plane and going to Riviera?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it is my first week back and in like five weeks or something, so to be out here and contend and get the juices flowing here on the back nine.   And I played really well coming down the stretch, so I'm very pleased with it.   So I'm looking forward to next week. 

Q.   Doesn't take you very long to be a very popular golf player in this area. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I enjoy being up here.   You got three beautiful courses and some of the best in the world.   So it's a lot of fun. 

Q.   An odd question.   On Thursday, USGA announced that amateur competition at the highest level can now use range finders effective immediately.   Your impressions?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I think it's great, really.   I don't see any problem with it.   It's going to speed up play and I mean it's not like we're ‑‑ we're getting the yardages anyway, so it's not like we have trouble getting the yardage.   We can get it right every time, but I think it will speed up play, which I think is fantastic.

Q.   Do you think it should happen?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I think they should let us use them on TOUR.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT