NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 13, 2014
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LAURA NEAL:   Nice 66 to start the week off here, kind of a continuation of your good play last week.   Talk about the momentum you bring in here to the Northern Trust Open.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Coming off a good week last week, got a lot of confidence coming into this week, and you know, today I just got off to a good start and just continued to play really solid all day.   I kept it in play and hit a lot of greens, had a lot of looks at birdie.   
   
 Q.   I wonder if you can compare the conditions today to the ones you competed in on Sunday and how much that impact makes in your game.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, I mean, it was cold, windy and wet at Pebble on Sunday.   Here, it's not a lot of wind and perfect conditions.   It's sunny and really nice temperature.   It's still golf, though.   You've still got to adjust no matter what you're doing.   
   
 Q.   You've had a couple of high finishes here the last four years, I think two out of the last four.   Has Riviera always been a course you've liked the look of and felt comfortable at?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, ever since the first time I came here, I think my rookie year, I've just really liked this golf course.   It's a great, great golf course.   It's always in good condition and it's just a fun course to play.   It's tough but you know, it's fair.   
   
 Q.   Sort of a silly question, but when you walking up the hill, do you ever have memories of chasing down that tee time that you were a little late for?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I had not really thought about it until you just brought it up.   (Laughter).  
No, I definitely remember that one.   Just got the times flip flopped.   I was sitting on the range.   It wasn't even like I was late.   I was just on the range just thought I had 20 minutes and I was about to tee off.   I was here in plenty of time, so nothing happened.   Just, you know, messed up the tee time a little bit.   It happens.   Made it up there, though in, time to tee off at least.   
   
 Q.   When you do as well as you did this morning, do you tend to spend the afternoon checking every five minutes to see what everybody else is doing or do you just relax and show up tomorrow?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I won't look.   It doesn't matter.   It's the first day.   I'm just worried about me.   So I'll do a little practice and then I'll go relax the rest of the afternoon.   
   
 Q.   Non‑golf question.   What was the hockey game at Dodger Stadium like for you?   I know you had a nice view.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was really cool.   It was a fun game to go to.   It was a great time.   We went out a little bit early and watched them warm up and watched Wayne drop the puck.   It was a lot of fun, and you know, it's just cool just to be a part of it.   I know they are doing a couple of them this year, or they have done a couple.   It's just a neat experience.   
   
 Q.   With the wraparound year and you open it with a win, how does that change your goals, your expectations and what you hope for in a season?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It doesn't.   It's still the same.   Just I come out every week to compete and try to win.   I don't show up if I'm not trying to win.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned at AT&T last week how your short game, you're getting very comfortable with your chipping, kind of around the greens, you're comfortable there, but your bunker play was kind of more something you're working on.   How is that now kind of a week removed from Pebble?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   You know, I'm just streaky.   I always have been though.   I get up and I can hit‑‑ it seems like the harder the shot is, the better I hit it.   But you know, I'm always fairly good out of the bunker.   Just it's something that‑‑ it's an area that I can always improve on.   
   
 Q.   What was your strategy, plan of attack on the 10th hole?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Mostly depends on the wind, but I always try to hit it up there‑‑ I try to hit it to the front edge of the green, so just short left right there on the front.   You know, then if it comes up a little short of that, it's okay, or if it goes just a little past it, it's all right.   
You know, with the greens being firm, I think for me, that's the best area to attack the hole from is right there on the front left.   
LAURA NEAL:   Dustin, thanks for your time, good luck the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT