TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 19, 2013
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I thought the conditions were great.   The course is in perfect condition, not a lot of wind.   It was swirling a little bit, but it kind of plays the same as it always does.   You drive it on the fairway, you know, you can attack the golf course, but you hit it in the rough, it's really tough to get on the green.

Q.   Noticed some birdies out there for you, at least today anyway.   Six, I think. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I played really well.   The bogeys I made were‑‑ I just hit a couple bad chip shots, and then had a three‑putt on the par 3 on the front.   But other than that, I mean, I played really well, had a lot of opportunities, a lot of close birdies that I missed.   Just left a few‑‑
Just lost pace the getting to the hole.   Hit it a little firmer, and I'd have made a few more. 

Q.   A lot of guys bunched up on the leaderboard.   Is there a better score out there than 2 or 3? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I think someone could do 4, 5, or 6 today.   That's definitely doable.   This golf course, you play really good, you can shoot a really good score.   If you're just a little bit off, it plays really tough.

Q.   Looked like your last five holes or so you had your irons dialed in.   You were pretty much right on the flag. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I hit a lot of‑‑ I mean, I hit good shots all day.   Hit a couple of poor iron shots, but other than that, I'm pretty pleased with the way I struck it.   I drove it pretty straight through.   I had a lot of opportunities to make birdie. 

Q.   Are you feeling a little empty with those last three? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I hit good putts on every one of them.   Just the one on 17 didn't break.   The one on 16 and 18, I just didn't hit quite hard enough.   They just died across the front edge of the hole.

Q.   Can you tell us what happened on the side of the green on 3.   Seemed like you may have gotten a little unlucky there with the drop. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, I just got relief from the sprinkler head, and then dropped it.   It was just leaning up against my tee.   No, it was fine.   I hit a bad chip.   I hit it way too hard.

Q.   Once the ball comes to rest, were you able to move the tee out? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, you move it, and if the ball moves, you put the ball back.

Q.   [No microphone.]
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, it's a good hole.   It's a tough par 3.   So you don't get that very often.

Q.   Last year after the first round you were still in contention somewhat.   Do you feel not too bad about today's 2 under? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   I think by far it's the best round I've ever had starting out here.   I'm very pleased with it.   Just try to do what I did today and tomorrow and see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT