TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 20, 2013
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Really good.   I feel like I'm playing really well.   The other day, I really didn't make any putts.   Hit a lot of good putts this time.   
    Hit some wedges from the fairway, just didn't get it close enough to the hole.   
    Other than that, I thought I hit it really solid all day.   I was driving it on the fairway.   And when I did miss the fairway, I was just barely off.   I was able to get it on the green or surrounding it.   Over all, I was pretty solid.  
   
 Q.   I thought there were some tough pins out there today.   There were three or four that were right around a bunker.   
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it was some tough flags.   Any time the flags are on the front here, it's tough to get close to.   
    You can't spin it that much.   The greens are firm.   So it's tough to get it close on the front flags.   
    I had a lot of good opportunities, just played really solid.   No bogeys and two birdies.  
   
 Q.   You know, we've got a hell of a tournament going on here if Henrik Stenson gets stuck in traffic.   
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I know, it was actually kind of funny.   Dusty ‑‑ we were walking through, going to the 10th hole‑‑ and he goes, what do we got to shoot to win this tournament?   And he's like, Henrik Stenson.   
   
 Q.   Hey, Dustin, bogey‑free in this place has got to sound pretty good to you.   
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I think that's the first time ever.  
   
 Q.   As good as Stenson?   
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Not even close.   I'm not average, at least to a round here.   Today was pretty good.   I was just solid.   Hit it well.   Didn't hit it really close to the hole but had a lot‑‑ I just hit more lag shots today.   I felt like I was striking it really well, just hit a couple of bad wedges.   Missed a short putt on nine and didn't roll anything to the 15th tee.  
   
 Q.   I was just going to ask you, with the weather coming in, rain of some sort tomorrow, is it better to pace tomorrow or do you need to protect?   
    DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I don't think it really matters.   It all depends out here how the wind's blowing.   If the wind is blowing hard, it plays tough.   If there's not a lot of wind, it still plays tough.   You've really got to be on your game, like you've got to hit it good.   You've got to drive it into the fairway.   
    If you're just a little bit off, it's really easy to make bogeys around here.   You miss it on the wrong side on one hole, and you can't get it close chipping it, or whether you're in a bunker or chipping it.   
    So you've got to be kind of spot on, and then when you're out of position, you've really got to play smart so you can give yourself a good look at the ball.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT