FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 6, 2013
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   Defending champion.   Got off to a very, very quick start.   Tell me about what feels so comfortable here where you got off to the great start today.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, I mean I just like this golf course.   It sets up well for me.   You really got to be, you know, really good off the tee.   You got to drive it in the fairway.   If you don't hit it in the fairway, it's real easy to make bogies, which I made a few bogies, the holes I missed the fairway open.   
It's tough out here.   I did get off to a great start, hit a lot of great shots early and holed a couple putts.   Played pretty solid all day long.  
   
 Q.   Overall the group itself, Davis Love was playing well and Snedeker had his moments.   What was the feeling like, all three of you playing fast and playing with such great skill?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   We're all good friends.   We had a good time out there today.   Enjoyed each others' company.   We all had a very solid day.  
   
 Q.   Is that start, 4-under through 5 holes you really had it rolling.   Talk a little bit about that.   Are you happy with the way the day ended or gave some shots up?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I hit really good all day.   I hit a couple drives off line, but other than that, I drove it really straight.   I hit a lot of good iron shots and still had a lot of chances to make some more birdies, just didn't -- some putts didn't go in.   The only hole really -- missed a short putt on 12, you know.   Other than that, I played pretty solid all day long.  
   
 Q.   When you can look back and really look at only a couple shots, does it make you feel good going into Friday knowing the course was playing tough and there you are right there in contention?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   This golf course, it's going to take four good rounds.   We've still got three more days left.   Today we're just getting started.   I feel good about my position and I'm looking forward to the rest of this week.  
   
 Q.   How was the wait --  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Pretty good.   It plays slow on the back-9.  
   
 Q.   What goes through your mind on --  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   The next shot I miss.   I was playing good.   I'm not worried about it.   Keep trying to hit it in the fairway and get the next shot as close to the hole as we can.  
   
 Q.   With no wind today it's conducive to low scores, but what was it about this course today that it was tough with no wind?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   This course always plays tough.   Hard to get it close to the hole, hard to make putts.   When you do get it close to the hole, even if you hit it a foot off of the fairway, you really don't have much of a shot to get it -- especially to get it around the hole if you can even get on the green.  
   
 Q.   Some golfers talk about pin placements today, for a Thursday, was different like No. 14.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   They're going to put it there, it's going to be there one day.   Whether they put it there the first day or last day doesn't really matter.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT