TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2020
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You just kind of referred to it a little bit, you had some good looks that were close on the greens that you didn't roll in today. What could this have been from 61?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, it always could have been better. But I mean, yeah, I hit a lot of nice putts that hit the hole from that eight- to ten-foot range, probably had four, five or six of them that I probably should have made. But yeah, I made some nice putts, too. I'm very happy with the way I played. I gave myself a lot of looks. Every hole, like I said, I felt like I was giving myself an opportunity to make birdie, and I feel like I'm rolling the putter well, so I just need to get myself in a position where I've got a chance to make a putt.
Q. What would you say is the most key moment for you today that you're most happy with?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, probably obviously the way I hit my irons today was -- finally I felt like I had a lot of control of my distance and the shot shapes. I hit a lot of great shots. I think that was probably the biggest key. But probably the most important part of the round would have been No. 11, where I made that really good bunker save because I put myself in just an awful spot with a wedge.
Q. With regard to Bryson, everybody is seeing how he's transformed himself. As somebody like yourself who's one of the longest hitters and best drivers on TOUR, what's been your impression of what he's done in the last number of months?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, I think any time someone hits it a long way and hits it straight, it's impressive. But you've still got to get it in the hole. It doesn't matter how far you hit it. You've got to get it in the hole.
Q. You talked about low stress; when have you ever felt stress on a golf course?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: A lot more than you think I do. I just don't -- I try not to show it. Today I hit a lot of good iron shots, so there wasn't really any much of a struggle. I actually made a really good par on 5. I hit a good shot in there, just went too far. Made a nice two-putt from just off the back of the green there, and then obviously the good save on 11. But other than that, I felt like I gave myself really good birdie opportunities on every hole.
Q. Just curious with your experience on this golf course, ninth hole, some of the holes you can be aggressive and conservative; how do you play 9?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've been hitting hybrid off the tee, and today I hit hybrid and a pitching wedge to about two inches, and then yesterday I did the same thing, hybrid and a pitching wedge to about five feet and made it.
I just want to hit it off the fairway, especially around here, because the rough is pretty thick. It's hard to control the golf ball. The greens are fast and kind of firm. For me, it doesn't really matter what distance I'm playing from, as long as I'm in the fairway.
Q. How did you celebrate your birthday?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I stayed in Hilton Head and hung out with the kids all morning, went fishing with the boys and kind of just hung around the house and then flew up here.
Q. How was it doing what you did today without spectators?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I got a few claps out there from the houses. There's some people watching. But yeah, I mean, it's different. I like the fans. I enjoy playing in front of the fans, especially on the weekends if you're in the hunt. They just bring a lot more excitement.
But obviously being my third week in a row, we're kind of getting used to it. Hopefully we don't get too used to it. I would like to see the fans back sooner rather than later.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT