SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2013
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First things first, no better way to come into the Sony than with a win off Kapalua, so talk about the momentum you're bringing in. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, yeah, obviously it's great to get a win in the first event of the year.   It gets the year started off on a really good note.   Really looking forward to coming into this golf course.   I've played well here in the past, and I haven't played the last couple years, but I do enjoy playing here and know the course is in great shape. 
Just a little tired, need to go home and rest, but I'll be ready in the morning.

Q.   A lot of high numbers out there.   Are you going to petition to maybe slide it over to round 1 and maybe the pro‑am numbers count?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   Anything close to a pro‑am number I'll be very pleased with.   Yeah, tomorrow just need to go out and play a good, solid round of golf.   This golf course, especially this windy, it plays tough.   You've just got to hit a lot of good shots, good drives, good second shots.   It's just a tough golf course.

Q.   Are you mentally ready to have another competitive round?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I'm ready to go.   Just need to go rest a little bit.   But you know, I'm fine.   I'm definitely looking forward to this week, and definitely mentally ready for sure. 

Q.   There's loads of equipment changes out there.   How long does it usually take for you to put something new in your bag?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, I went to Hawai'i with all new stuff, never even hit it before.   It worked out pretty well for me, new driver, new irons.   I'm ready to go.

Q.   With the win that you had last year, I'm sure nothing could compare to what you were able to do last week in those conditions.   You've got to feel good about things looking to balance out here?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, obviously coming off a win last week is great, first event of the year, couldn't be happier.   Looking forward to this week.   Totally different golf course, different conditions, but you've still got to play golf.

Q.   What adjustments, if any, do you make from that hilly course to more of a flat‑‑
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, well this‑‑ last week, it's hilly and wide open.   This week it's flat and narrow.   You know, here it's a lot of just placing the ball.   You've got to hit it to a certain spot in the fairway off the tee.   It's a tough driving golf course.   But if you can drive it in the fairway you can shoot a pretty good score out here.

Q.   Fewer drivers then?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I hit a decent amount of drivers, but yeah, definitely not as many‑‑ last week I drove it on every hole.   This week I'll probably hit eight drivers.   It's almost like I don't ever hit it.

Q.   There's always a lot of discussion about whether the PGA season should be beginning out here in Hawai'i.   What are your thoughts on coming out here and kicking off the season?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I love coming out to Hawai'i.   It's a beautiful place to visit, the weather is great.   I like spending time on the beach, too.   I mean, I enjoy it.   I'm glad they do start out here.

Q.   Will the change in the FedExCup system alter your fall schedule?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Not really, no. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT