SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2013
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DUSTIN JOHNSON:   You'll just have to see.   I don't know.   Again, one of the best shots today.   Made a few mistakes but played really solid.  
   
 Q.   What was working so well for you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I rolled it really well with the putter.   I missed two short ones on 11 and 12, but other than that, you know, I made a lot of great putts, and every putt I hit felt like it was going in the hole.   That's what you're trying to do.  
   
 Q.   Justin, kind of like that.   Do you feel like you had it clicking this week?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I struggled a little bit the first couple of days, wasn't real comfortable.   Today I was.   I really felt good with the good swing, had a lot of confidence and hit a lot of great shots.   Hit a couple shots on 14 and 17, just -- I don't know how the balls went as far as they did, but they did.   Unfortunately, you know, it cost me a few shots, but you never know what happens.  
   
 Q.   You said you kind of felt a change.   What was the turning point that you started feeling a little better?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Just put in a lot of practice this week.   Things weren't feeling great.   I wasn't real comfortable out there the first few days, but I still rolled it really well with the putter and I was very pleased with that putt, just put in a lot of time on the range and it was just clicking.   I felt really good with the golf swing.   Hit a lot of the great iron shots.  
   
 Q.   Where did you say you made your mistakes, 14 and 17?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I hit it over the green on 14 and 17.   Hit it in the water on 12.   Those are just things you can't do out here, hit it over the green.   12 is playing real easy today.   I can hit it 100 yards left and still get up and down.   I just pushed it a little bit.  
   
 Q.   What did you use off the tee?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   5-wood.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the eagle.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I hit a great drive all the way down into the fairway and just had a really good number to hit a 3-iron.   I had to hit it really good if I was going to get it there.   I had like 256 front and 274 hole and just hit it perfect.   Came out right at it and --  
Q.Does it change your mindset when you see the leaderboard, everybody is scoring, birdies all over?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I knew I was going to have to come out and do something special today if I wanted to even have a chance.   I played really well.   7-under on Sunday, I'll take that anywhere, anytime, and be happy with it.   You know, obviously I left a few shots out there, but, you know, that's golf.  
   
 Q.   How hard was the lie on 18?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was -- wasn't one where I could really be too aggressive with, try to get it too close.   I was trying to get it over the ridge so I could have a little better look at it.   I just wanted a 30-footer to try and make something.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT