THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2013
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice playing out there today, how tough was it?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, it's wet, so the course is playing pretty long.   And then a little bit of wind.   And then the rough's really thick, so you've really got to drive it in the fairway.   Today I drove it really well.   Had a lot of looks at birdies, and just played really solid all day long.   
   
 Q.   Did you dial back off any tees to make sure you hit it in the short stuff?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Out here, really doesn't‑‑ there's a lot of tees where I just can't hit driver.   There's nowhere to hit it.   I hit a lot of 3‑woods and a couple 5‑woods, and then I hit a couple drivers, not too many, maybe five.   
   
 Q.   Satisfied?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, very satisfied.   Any time you shoot under par out here, I think you're playing well.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you really wanted to make that last putt?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I did.   I missed a real short one on 7, and then I had another good look there on 9.   But you know, I hit all the putts real good, I hit the hole a lot today.   So maybe get a few more to roll in tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Should be a quiet afternoon tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it should be.   
   
 Q.   How good were you playing in your opinion?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I played really well.   Out here, especially, missing four fairways, isn't too bad.   The fairways are narrow and that's the key is driving it real straight.   I drove it well today.   I was very pleased with it.  
   
 Q.   Strategically, obviously you're a power player, did you have to dial back off the tee on a lot of these holes?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   You've just got to play the golf course as it comes to you.   There's a lot of holes where I just can't hit driver.   There's nowhere to hit it.   I hit a lot of 3‑woods.   I think I hit five drivers, a lot of 3‑woods, and a 5‑wood or two, and just try to get it in the fairway.  
   
 Q.   Last three events, has not I'm sure been up to your standards.   What has been the difference coming into here?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Coming back home helps a little bit.   You know, I've been doing a lot of work with Claude and a lot of practice the last five or six days I had off, because I got knocked out early in Tucson.   
   
 Q.   The Match Play‑‑  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Very frustrated.   I didn't feel like I was swinging bad.   Just my misses were so bad.   Like it wasn't like normal where the ball, like all my misses, it wasn't even like starting out‑‑ usually when I miss it, it starts online and maybe just over‑curves or vice versa, but just starting left and going left and just for me, that gets me in a lot of trouble.   
   
 Q.   Were you at all worried, the time of the year?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   I mean, I knew, because I would go a stretch of holes, seven or eight holes in a row where I would hit it five feet on every hole and drive it right down the middle.   All of a sudden out of nowhere I snap‑hook one or snap‑hook a 7‑iron, didn't matter if it was driver, didn't matter what club it was, it was just in there.   I've been doing a lot of work with Claude and just getting a little more practice in.   
   
 Q.   The hook the problem?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   That was‑‑ yeah, it was never right.   It was just left.   I had the lefts going and it was with every club in the bag.  
   
 Q.   What adjustment, if any, that you had to make?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   For me, just keeping it a little bit shorter.   Getting a little more width off the ball, a little bit shorter and backswing, and you know, making sure I'm getting back on my right side.   My tendency is to go left‑‑ my left side, and then back up behind it, and that's just a recipe for disaster.   
   
 Q.   You're liking the way the course is playing for you?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, if I keep driving it straight, I'll like it.   
   
 Q.   Tiger's water shot, would you have done it?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, I didn't look at it, but probably in that situation, I probably would have.   If he had taken a drop, he would have had to go way back there‑‑  
   
 Q.   Was it over the water for a long way?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, he would have had to drop pretty far back.   I don't even know‑‑ and he would have had to drop in the rough, too.   So I don't even‑‑ he probably couldn't even have got it to where he did.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your round a little bit, please?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Round was good, really solid from start to finish.   Hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens and rolled the putter pretty well today.   
   
 Q.   Playing with Tiger, the crowds, always adds to a good first round there?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it's great.   I like playing with Tiger.   He's a good buddy of mine.   We have a good time out there, and then obviously it's great to have all the fans come out and watch.   
   
 Q.   Overall, good feeling heading into round two though, I'm sure, right?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, getting better each day.   Feeling good right now.   Hit a lot of great shots today.   
   
 Q.   Are the greens a little bit faster than you thought they would be with it being damp and kind of cool?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   They are faster than they were yesterday, so they have done a great job.   The greens are perfect.   They can't roll any better if you ask me.   So the grounds crew is doing a great job here.   
   
 Q.   After a round, how long would you work out in the gym?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I'll go this afternoon and then‑‑ I'll go practice and probably go to the gym.   
   
 Q.   How long?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Probably an hour at the gym and probably an hour of practice.  
   
 Q.   If you had to name the four or five fittest guys on TOUR, who would they be?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Your guess is probably as good as mine.   I mean, obviously Tiger is very fit.   Let's see, Kaymer, he's fit.   He works hard on his fitness.   I mean, most of the guy at the top are all really hard core into fitness.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT