BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2012
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   16 out of 18 greens today.   You've got to be pleased with the way it went. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I hit the ball well.   I had a couple three‑putts, though, so that doesn't sit too well with me because I'm rolling the putter really nicely right now.   The one on 16 there just was a big spike mark right in my way, and I hit it coming out, and you can't really do nothing about that.   Just hit a good putt and three‑putted there.   But I played beautiful all day.   Today it was windy, but obviously the guys‑‑ there's still some good scores out there.   I thought it was playing not easy, but I hit the ball really nicely today.

Q.   The wind changed and it blew; that's quite an adjustment for you to make on a course you're still learning. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, like I said, I just hit it really solid, just hit my target all day long and hit a lot of great‑‑ hit some great little wedge shots in there close and made the putts.   You know, all in all it's been a solid three days for me.   I'm very pleased with it.   I'm going to have to go out tomorrow and shoot a good number.

Q.   I hear guys talking about, they say, "I'm close."   Are you close to really busting loose here?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I am.   It's starting to click a little bit.   I'm starting to play well.   The last two tournaments I played really solid, playing really solid this week, too.   The golf game is definitely coming around.   It's starting to feel back to normal.

Q.   Looks like you can't wait to tee it up on Sunday. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I'm ready.   I'm ready to do that. 

Q.   Have you ever hit a ball into a purse before? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I've hit into people's chairs and a trash can, so yeah, I mean, some interesting things happen out here.   Especially when you've got so many people out watching, things like that happen. 

Q.   I'm curious how you played 9 today. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Driver, and then I hit 3‑iron in the middle of the green behind the hole, and I missed the three‑footer for birdie.   I three‑putted. 

Q.   Awkward pin placement?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, it's not bad.   I looked at it in the practice round when they put it up there.   Unless I had a really good number and no wind or something, I would shoot at it, but we said, just hit it back behind the hole, it's an easy putt from balk there.   Almost made it.   I burned the edge going by, and the next one horseshoed. 

Q.   Can you make any comparison where you are now going into tomorrow to where you were last week in Boston with the low scores?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, the golf course is way different than last week.   I think I'm playing a lot better than I was last week.   Last week I wasn't hitting it that good.   I was scoring good, but I was just not‑‑ not getting into trouble really.   But this week I feel like I'm swinging the club a lot better.   Everything feels good, and I'm hitting good wedge shots, I'm hitting good long irons, I'm driving it pretty well.   I'm very pleased with the golf game. 
I had a couple three‑putts today, but I'm putting really well right now, just a couple of them, the one on 9 and the one on 16, the little ones that I missed were‑‑ there's a lot of spike marks out there, and both of them hit spike marks and kicked left and just barely missed.

Q.   This is three weeks in a row of leaderboards that don't have any really good players on them (laughing). 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, it's the Playoffs, so guys come to play golf.   This year we've got a lot of the other guys, Europeans are playing on the TOUR this year, which I think in the past they haven't really done that.

Q.   Louis and Rory‑‑
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Right, not as many.   There's always been a few, but it seems like this year there's a lot more.   All the top guys in the world are playing over here now.

Q.   Do you get any buzz from looking up at the board and seeing the quality of player up there?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Pretty good.   It's pretty good.   You look and you know‑‑ in the big tournaments it seems like all year this year, the top guys are up there every time. 

Q.   How does it feel out there?   Does it have the feel of a big tournament?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, the crowds are great.   People are really nice here, they're big crowds, so it's a lot of fun out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT