TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 21, 2012
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Wasn't hitting that good of iron shots.   I drove if on the fairway on 9, made a good up‑and‑down, good birdie on 9 and really hit some good shots on the back.   Started playing good, and drove it in the fairway.   The only fairway I missed on the back was 16.   Just hit it in the right rough, which was fine.   
Just hit it closer to the hole.   I hit really good shots, controlled my distance well on the back side, and rolled in a couple of putts.   But all the birdies I made were pretty much kick‑ins.  
   
 Q.   How tough is this golf course playing?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It's really tough.   I hit a couple shots on 10, 10 and 11.   10 feet from the hole.   Putting straight down the hill, and you've got three or four feet of break from 10 feet.   Those are hard putts to make.   You've got to keep it under the hole so you can be aggressive with the putter.   I did a little bit better on the back nine.   But I've got to keep working on it a little bit.   But it definitely was better today.  
   
 Q.   What is your game plan for the final 36?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   This golf course you really can't change the game plan.   I mean, it's right there in front of you.   It's just hard.   The fairways were really narrow.   The greens were pretty firm and they are really fast.   The game plan is getting on the fairway, because that is the key to this golf course, driving on the fairway.   If you're not on the fairway, you can't control the ball, and you can't get it close to the hole.  
   
 Q.   Your buddy didn't have on any socks.   That is the first time I've seen a caddie in loafers out here.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, he didn't know he was going to be working today.   But it worked out well.   It's fine.   I kind of‑‑ he played golf with me in college, so he's a good player and a good friend of mine, so it was fine switching them up.   And Bobby was struggling and wasn't feeling well, so I told him to go home.  
   
 Q.   As firm as these greens are and as high as you hit it with a lost spin, you seemed to have an advantage.   Tell us how the course is playing?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   The only way I have an advantage here is if I drive it on the fairway.   I did it on the back nine, and I did well.   I shot 3‑under on the back, and I had a lot of good looks.   A few that could have gone in and a few that didn't.   But the only advantage here is hitting it on the fairway.   If you get it on the fairway, it's a huge advantage, because you cannot control the ball coming out of this rough.   You definitely aren't going to be close to the hole.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT