DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2012
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I think it was a day for scoring, but I think you played really well.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I did.   I hit a lot of good shots out there, missed a couple opportunities, but all in all, played pretty well.   I got in trouble a couple times off the tee, but I managed to save pars or whatever.   I bogeyed No.7, which was a bad bogey.   I was setting up to hit a cut out of the bunker and double‑crossed it.   Not good, made bogey there.   But all in all, played pretty well today.   I hit a lot of good iron shots.  
   
 Q.   After last week's finish and now a good start, you always seem to play well at the end of the year.   You've got to be really pumped up right now.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, well, I haven't played much this year, so the tournaments I have played, I've played pretty well in.   I played good last week, had a good, solid finish, and hopefully this week‑‑ I got off to a good start, which is all you want to do, and then maybe get out there tomorrow and put another good number up.   But out here you've got to shoot a good score on a day like today.  
   
 Q.   You had to watch your South Carolina Gamecocks.   Tough game last night but you came out with the win.   Are you happy about that?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah I'm happy with the win, but we didn't look too good last night to be honest.   We struggled.   I thought we should have played a lot better than that.   
   
 Q.   Maybe you and the Gamecocks need to play better, huh?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, for sure.  
   
 Q.   It seemed like this was really a pairing that you were looking forward to, saw a couple of your Tweets, looking for the long drive?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, I don't try to hit it far, I try to hit it straight.   But you know, the fans, they like it.   My goal is to get it in the fairway.  
   
 Q.   A couple squirrelly ones today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I hit a couple‑‑ you know, it wasn't‑‑ I hit a lot of good drives, but it seemed like when I missed a drive, it was pretty bad.   Got to work on some things on the range.   
But I'm pretty pleased with the score, my score today, 4‑under is never a bad score around here.   Just got to go practice and get a little better for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   The course is pretty gettable today you thought?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, the wind is picking up, so it's not that easy, but yeah, if you drive it in the fairway, this course is always pretty gettable.   The greens are pretty receptive right now, and they're perfect.   If you're getting good looks at birdies, you're going to make some, because the greens are just so good.  
   
 Q.   With respect to the changes they've made at 18, were they at all discernible for you?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, the two greens they changed, 18 and 2, to me they're okay, but to me they're not‑‑ they don't fit the course with the rest of the greens.   But they made them tougher.   They made the holes tougher.   But I thought the old green on 2 and 18 was pretty good.   But the new ones are fine, too.   Just with the dropoffs and stuff, you don't see that much out here, just on those holes.  
   
 Q.   Does it give you pause when you're hitting your approach?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   You've got to think about where you're hitting it for sure because if you miss it on the wrong side, like 18 if you miss it left and long, it's not a good spot to be.   You've definitely got to be cautious whatever you're hitting into that green.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT