PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2012
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was your day?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   5 through 13 was a tough stretch of holes but played better.   
   
 Q.   Even playing 3:40 as opposed to 5 1/2 doesn't do anything for your game?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, it doesn't really make a difference to me.   
   
 Q.   As far as the weather conditions, how much better was it today?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I mean, it's still tough.   The wind is not quite as strong as yesterday so it played a little bit easier.   
   
 Q.   How would you characterize the fans, you have a lot of buddies, families and friends here?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It's great.   All my friends and family are down here watching.   It's always fun to have them out here supporting you and playing with Duf today, he's a good friend and a lot of fun.   He played real well today.  
   
 Q.   Thought you had something special going there, three birdies in the first five?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I got off to a good start.   Just hit a couple poor tee shots that kind of cost me a few shots on 11 and 6.   That was kind of‑‑ I hit good drives there.   Still played pretty solid.  
   
 Q.   Has the first few days played as tough as you thought?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, out here it's all wind.   The first day was pretty easy and I didn't play well, shot 1‑under.   But the last two days with the wind blowing out here, it's just been really tough.   
   
 Q.   Is one of your‑‑ I assume your biggest disappointment of the week is the way you play the par 5s, is that accurate?   Did you come in thinking that was a place you could definitely do some damage?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, the par 5s, you don't get a lot of opportunities out here.   You've got to take advantage of the par 5s and I just have played them so poorly.  
   
 Q.   Do you and have you enjoyed playing this golf course, or is it a golf course you like to play?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   The golf course is good.   It's in great shape.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT