FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 9, 2012
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All told, except for 18, this is a pretty good round.   Tell me about what went so well for you today.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, I just hit the ball well.   I drove it well.   I hit it well all day.   You know, I rolled it okay.   I had a lot of putts that I thought were going in that didn't, but, you know, overall, I hit the ball really good today.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're finally getting into game shape after the long layoff?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   For sure.   Today is probably the first day where I actually hit it nicely all day long.   So, you know, definitely getting into shape for the U.S. Open.  
   
 Q.   Dustin, tough bogey at the last, but really a solid round of golf.   Talk about this 3-under, 67.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I played well today.   I hit it good all day today.   You know, rolled the putter pretty well, too.   But, you know, the bogey on the last hole definitely hurt a little bit, especially I was in the middle of the fairway with a sand wedge.   Just caught a gust of wind and flew way too far.  
   
 Q.   Let me talk to you about the eagle you had at 3, because you're in the right, kind of in the trees.   I guess you had to get it under those tree limbs at first because were you looking anxiously at that second shot.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   You know, I got it down there, had to keep it low coming out and just in the rough, tried to keep it underneath the limbs coming out.   Hit a great shot to about 5 feet.  
   
 Q.   Made the putt for eagle.   Now, did you do a lot of scoreboard watching today?   Because you have climbed up the leaderboard, no one has really pulled away.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   You know, I was checking out on 18 while.   I'm right there and, you know, all I wanted was a chance to, you know, to have a chance to win on Sunday and, you know, I got it.  
   
 Q.   The shot at 18, the second shot.   I think you had like 130, maybe 139.   It took off on you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I pulled it a hair.   I was looking at the flag stick and hit it kind of right at it with a sand wedge.   It flew, you know, 145, 148.  
   
 Q.   Looks like threesomes tomorrow and very early start.   Does that affect anything for you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   Everybody is going to be out here, it looks like.   It will be -- hopefully we'll get it in tomorrow.   I know there's some weather coming in but, you know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT