WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2012
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   68 for Dustin Johnson with a marquee group.   How was the fan reaction today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was good.   It's fun out here.   We had a big crowd following us today, me, Phil and Rickie.   It was a good day.   The fans were great. 
I played pretty well today, got off to a good start, just hit some really good shots, hit some poor shots.   But today it was out there to shoot a good score.

Q.   You had a bit of a frost delay in the morning.   Did that affect conditions at all?   How was the golf course?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, the golf course is in good shape.   The front didn't really bother anything, just a little bit of a delay, which was nice, because it was cold this morning.

Q.   How is your health?   Overall how are you feeling?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Feeling good.   Knee is good, everything is good.   Looking forward to this week, getting back at it.   Last week was really kind of my first full week of playing, and looking forward to playing this week. 

Q.   Can you talk about your round today?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was a good day, got off to a nice start, birdied the first two holes.   You know, just played pretty solid.   I hit some really good shots, hit a couple bad ones, but never really‑‑ I putted the ball pretty well today.   I was pretty pleased with that.   I drove it well other than a couple of drives.   I hit a few bad drives, but other than that, drove it pretty well. 
I hit quite a few good shots, just hit some marginal shots, which I'm going to go to the range this afternoon and work on.

Q.   Talk about playing in this group with Rickie and Phil, star‑studded lineup there. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It's fine.   I'm good buddies with both Rickie and Phil, so we had a great time out there.   The fans were great.   We had big crowds following us all day, so it was fun.

Q.   Is it good to see after a first round that you're in contention going into day two?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I didn't play great today.   I had a good, solid score, but I'm not going to be too far back.   Someone is probably going to shoot 7‑ or 8‑under, but just got to go out tomorrow and get off to a good start and play well.

Q.   Your overall impressions of the greens? 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   There's a lot of ball marks, but other than that, the greens are rolling good. 

Q.   Was that a burrowing animal hole on 13?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I hit a pretty good shot there, hit a very poor pitch shot, though, and that was a bit unfortunate to go down there.

Q.   What's your impressions of hole 16, which seems like the rock‑n‑roll hole that's become legendary at this course?
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It's a lot of fun.   Today was kind of mellow, we were off early off the back, so it wasn't quite packed out yet.   But tomorrow afternoon should be a lot of fun playing that hole. 

Q.   Talk about the frost delay. 
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was kind of‑‑ well, the frost delay was actually kind of nice because it was so cold this morning, so it actually gave it enough time to warm up, and by the time we teed off, the weather was perfect. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT