AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 10, 2012
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Dustin, you know how you talked about trying to keep your rhythm?   When the rain came, was it harder to not speed up because you want to get out of the elements?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, well, I didn't have any rain gear with me, either, so I was cold and wet.   Yeah, you know, it's tough.   
But I still‑‑ my score was a lot worse than how I played.   I really gave away some shots.   I three‑putted twice from really close and didn't get up and down a couple of times from right next to the flag.   So just gave away some shots today.  
   
 Q.   It felt like maybe that was the highest score you could have shot.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I couldn't have shot any higher today.   But that's how it is.   I mean, it played really, really hard coming in because we've played in the mist.   It seemed like every hole we played was into the wind, too.   So it just played hard.   It got cold, it was wet, the ball was going nowhere?  
   
 Q.   Following you your front‑‑ not your first nine, it seems pretty obvious why you do so well with this format.   It's like the amateurs force you to slow down.   Because you walk fast, you seem to do everything fast.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, no, it's good.   I don't mind it.   I played well on the front.   I gave away some shots on 11 and 16, I think or whatever that little par‑3.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   I have it written down.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   15, the little short par‑3.   I three‑putted from about 12 feet.   Then 11, I hit it just left, just pin high left of the rough and didn't get up and down.   Then turning to the front, I had 6‑iron into one and made par.  
   
 Q.   What about 3?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   3, I thought I hit it off the tee, and it just went in the back fringe.   And to not to get up and down from ten feet away from the hole is a pretty poor effort by me.   The same thing, I three‑putted the other par three and just missed a short one.   Just hit a bad putt and hit it too hard and it lipped out.  
   
 Q.   How could you not have rain gear?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Well, when we started, it was gorgeous out.  
   
 Q.   But you know this is Monterey Peninsula?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I know.   I just didn't have it.  
   
 Q.   Well, I left my galoshes at home, too.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   That had nothing to do with my score though.   I just struggled today a little bit.   Struggled to get it in the hole.  
   
 Q.   Do you eat fast?   Because you really are quite‑‑ I mean, you walk fast.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, I'm tall.   My steps are long.   I don't feel like I'm moving fast.  
   
 Q.   No?   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.   I'm usually pretty slow.  
   
 Q.   There was one hole on the par‑5 when you were going for it in two, and you had to wait and wait and wait and wait, and Matt came and talked to you.   It just seemed like it was nice that instead of you just thinking about that shot, you were able to kind of chat or whatever.   It just seems like it's a really‑‑  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it was a long day today.   It took forever to play golf.   I don't know what time it is.   But six hours to play today.  
   
 Q.   Did it feel like six hours?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it did.  
   
 Q.   Even though you left some out there, Dustin, just one guy ahead of you right now.   So you have to feel good heading into the last two rounds.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I mean, obviously, I played really well yesterday.   I played good today.   I just pissed away some shots.   I hit some poor pitch shots, just really bad.   They weren't even pitch shots.   They were dink chips.   Ones that you're trying to hole, and I just hit them terrible.  
   
 Q.   You made some good putts on 8.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, I made a good putt on 8, but I hit two pretty good shots in there on the front edge.   I hit driver‑4‑iron into 8, hit driver, 4‑iron here on‑‑ no.   On 8, I hit driver, 7‑iron.   On 9, I hit driver, 4‑iron.   On 6, I hit driver, 4‑iron.   
I've never hit these clubs into these greens.   I'm used to hitting wedge and a 9.   I think the most I've ever hit into 6 is like an 8‑iron.   So the golf course with this weather it played into the wind.   It was cold, wet, and the ball just went absolutely nowhere.   I hit a good drive on 9 that went 245.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT