DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How are you rebounding from your win last week?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm doing okay. I feel like I'm playing really well, I just have made too many mistakes. Today I played real solid other than just a few short putts and then made a triple on No. 3, which was uncalled for. But other than that, you know, all week I've just played really good, just struggled a little bit on the greens.

 Q. So all in all you like the course conditions here?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the course conditions are great. Playing really solid, driving it well, hitting my irons good, just seems like the one bad shot I hit a round really costs me. 

 Q. Do you like your position or do you think maybe you see a bit --
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think I'm a probably a little too far back, but I'm not too far back to shoot really low tomorrow and get in that top 5. That's definitely in the mix for sure. 

 Q. It's kind of a weird mindset once you win one of these playoff events, though, because you've positioned yourself so well to this point that winning another doesn't move you up as much, right?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, but I can better my position, though. I can assure that I will be No. 1 going into Atlanta with a win here. But I'm playing well enough to win, I just haven't -- made too many mistakes and haven't putted well enough. But other than that, you know, just a couple holes -- I made three bogeys on par-5s driving it in the middle of the fairway, so that's terrible. And then I hit it in the water yesterday on 16 and then just -- hit a good shot, just got a bad gust of wind. And then today I chunked a 5-iron on 3 into the hay and made triple bogey. I mean, you take those scores away and I'm right in the mix.

 Q. What were the approach shots on the par-5s?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: A little bit of everything. Even though I putted bad, if I par the two holes and even if I just par the par-5s, I'm still right there in the middle of the mix. That's all right, though. 

 Q. Going into BMW, would you rather it be next week considering you're the defending champ, or do you like having the week off? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You've got to have the week off sometime. It hasn't done me very well going into Atlanta with a week off, so maybe now that we have it back-to-back it'll be all right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT