DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome Dustin Johnson. Last week you moved to No. 1 in the FedExCup Playoff standings with your win at the Barclays. If you'd kind of want to talk about changing gears and moving into this week. You just played the course. Talk about the course and your thoughts about this week.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, the course is in fantastic condition, surprisingly, with the weather last week. It was good to get up here and see the course being in such good condition. It's just as good as it always is, so I'm sure the grounds crew and the staff here are very pleased with that.  
  
  Q. What's it been like the last three days after your win on a short weekend, and then what have you been up to coming into this event?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was nice to get home for -- I think I got four nights at home, so that was really nice, got to hang out, went on the boat on Sunday and then practiced Monday and Tuesday. We had good weather at home, so I got to at least spend some time at home, so it was nice.   
  
  Q. Just comment like on the crazy point swings you can get in this FedExCup Playoffs. You go from 19th to 1st. It helps you get to 1st, but it makes you very vulnerable the other way, too, doesn't it?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well, now with the points you just really want to get yourself in a good position going into Atlanta. That's the biggest key. So as long as I play pretty well the next couple weeks, I should be in the top couple positions. That's all you want to be going into Atlanta. It doesn't matter if you're 1 or 5 really going into Atlanta. If you get it done there, then you take home the $10 million.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the course and how it sets up for your game? A couple years ago you played pretty well, last year not as well. How do you see the course versus your game?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it sets up pretty well for me. It all depends on -- you've got to putt it good here. These greens are really good, and so you're just going to have to putt it well. If I keep putting like I did last week, then I'm going to play well. I'm hitting the ball pretty good, I'm wedging it pretty well, and just got to keep rolling it in the hole.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the 11th hole and strategically how you approach that hole?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No. 11, it's a long hole, it's pretty tough. You're really just trying to hit it in the middle of that green every day. If you hit it in the middle of the green, even if it's on the bottom tier or the top tier, putting at any flag, you've got a pretty decent look at it. That's not a hole you're stepping up and you're saying I am going to birdie this hole; if you get it in there close one day and you make a birdie, it's a bonus, but you would take 3 every day and walk off.  
  
  Q. Do you step up and say this is a birdie hole when you get to the 16th hole, the par-3 there?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it's a little bit shorter, so if you hit a good quality iron shot there, you can get the ball close to the hole. Obviously there's some pins that they put that are a lot tougher than other ones. The back left one is not as easy to get the ball close, but you've got the ridge in the middle of the green, which you can kind of work the ball off of. But it's just -- if you hit good shots there, it is a birdie hole.   
  
  Q. Luke Donald was in here earlier saying that he has to work harder than anyone else because he doesn't have the talent of a lot of other guys. Do you agree with that?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, he does pretty well, so whatever he's doing I would keep doing it. But I mean, I think he's a talented golfer. He might put in hard work, but I don't know if that means he's not talented.   
  
  Q. Only a handful of golfers have won two or more FedExCup events. You've got two. How do you feel being in that elite company, and why is it so difficult to win these events?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, you know, these are the few events where you get all the top 100 or 125 or the top 70 on the FedExCup where you get all those guys playing at one time. That's why it makes it harder. And there's only four each year. It's a lot harder to win when you've only got four tournaments each year.   
  
  Q. Did you ever think you'd see the day when Phil Mickelson would use a belly putter?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Is he using a belly right now? (Smiling.) I doubt he'll putt with it. He might, but I doubt he will. But as good as the guys that are using bellies are putting right now, I've thought about it. So it certainly doesn't surprise me.   
 MARK STEVENS: Thanks a lot, Dustin. Have a good weekend.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT