THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good round out there today. Talk about the conditions. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I played really well today, played solid all day long, never really got myself out of position, drove it really well. You know, other than the drive on 18 is the only really bad drive I hit all day. You know, I'm very pleased with the round. 
 Missed a few putts, but other than that, I played really well all day. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's getting a little better. Not nearly 100 per cent, but it's definitely better than it was yesterday, and hopefully it'll keep getting better for the weekend. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it's pretty bad. But hopefully I'm going to go home and rest as much as possible. That's what I did all day yesterday, just go rest. Hopefully I can wake up in the morning and feel a little better. 

 Q. Have you heard a forecast for tomorrow at all?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I heard it's not supposed to be too good, though.

 Q. The worse weather the better for you?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't care. It doesn't matter. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It would have been at Riviera.

 Q. This year?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, not this year, the year before, so last year.

 Q. Besides the two shots you picked up, just from an emotional standpoint, what did that do for you?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it was huge because I wasn't really struggling but nothing was going right for me. You know, I made four easy bogeys, all the birdie chances I had, burned the edges, just nothing was going in the hole. And then I birdied 14 and 15, so for that one to go in and get me back to even par was definitely huge from a confidence standpoint and obviously giving me a little more energy coming down the stretch. 

 Q. Did you see it replayed?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I watched it. It wasn't going that fast. Come on, now.

 Q. Through 13 holes yesterday you were 4-over. Could you ever have imagined you'd be two out of the lead?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, the guys played really good yesterday, even in the morning when I thought it was playing really hard. So for me to fight back and get it to even obviously was a big deal. But teeing off today I knew -- we knew the wind was coming in, so I knew if I just played solid that I would be -- could shoot anything under par and would be around the lead.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I'm not surprised because the golf course played really tough today. It did, it played really tough. 

 Q. You've come so close to winning two of these and you really haven't put yourself in position to do that again until now. For your age and where you are in your career --
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm still young, so I'm not really worried about it, just put myself in position and see what happens.

 Q. Even though there wasn't wind this morning, why did the golf course play tough?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, pins were tough. It was really firm and fast out there, so it was hard to navigate around the bunkers. I think that's the -- that's the key is there was a lot more flags close to these bunkers, and off the tee today it seemed like the bunkers were a lot more in play. 

 Q. With only seven shots between 1st and probably the first man out tomorrow, everyone is going to think that they've got a chance, haven't they?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, for sure. If you can get out early tomorrow and shoot 4- or 5-under before the weather comes in, you're going to be looking pretty good coming into the weekend. 

 Q. You're two shots off the lead right now and you were 4-over early --
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just fought. Today I didn't have to fight at all. I played solid all day. I never really had any trouble. The only trouble I got into was on 8, and I hit a really good shot, it just -- if it was a yard right of where it went, it bounces up and rolls up next to the hole. Instead it went in the bunker, and I hit a great bunker shot from there to about seven feet and just lipped it out.

 Q. Health-wise what would you say you are, 85, 90 percent?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Probably 80. 

 Q. And what is the impact of whatever you have? Has it been diagnosed yet? Just swollen glands?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I don't know what it is.

 Q. You're still on antibiotics?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.

 Q. What is the effect of that, that 80 per cent, on playing golf?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've just got to grind it a little more, that's all. 

 Q. It must feel good that you've put yourself in position to win in three of the four majors?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, obviously I love this kind of golf. It's fun to come over here and play. We don't get to play it very much, but I enjoy it when I do. You've got to hit so many different shots. You've got to cut it, draw it, hit it high, hit it low, just got to really control your golf ball. That's the key out here. 

 Q. Have you ever won a tournament feeling crummy?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, for sure. I mean, it's not that -- it's not like the flu where I'm dying. I just don't feel 100 per cent. 
 But I'll go home and rest and I'll feel all right tomorrow.

 Q. You know there's a whole saying that's been around for probably 100 years, beware of the ailing golfer. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I know, so beware. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT