THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, it was tough. I played well enough maybe to get it done today but just didn't hole the putts at the right time.  
  
  Q. Any thoughts on Northern Ireland and the luck that's going through there?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, no chance.  
  
  Q. If you would have hit a 2-iron there --  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I probably should have hit 3-wood. I mean, I'm two back with the rest of the holes coming in are pretty tough. You don't really have -- out here you don't really get too many opportunities to make birdie, so it was definitely a go situation. But if I had to do it over again, I'd hit a 3-wood instead of a 2-iron.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it was pretty much dead in, so it wasn't all that difficult.   
  
  Q. Obviously you haven't had time to absorb this yet, but third time experiencing the final group at a major on a Sunday. How do you think this day went compared to the previous two?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it was brutal out there. I think I held up pretty well. I hung in there all day, made some birdies on the back to get back in there and just unfortunately made the double bogey on 14, which really just took all my momentum out.   
  
  Q. Can you summarise your week for us, please.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think I had a great week. I came into the week -- obviously I came down with a little bit of illness, wasn't feeling that well, so I didn't know what to expect. But I fought all week, and I didn't have my best stuff this week for sure. But I hung in there and just fought around, and I think I did very well.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: If I had it to do over again, I wouldn't hit the 2-iron there.  
  
  Q. What type of shot were you trying to hit in there, draw, fade?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, just a low little draw. I was trying to hit it right at the flag and turn it a little left.   
  
  Q. Was it disappointing on 5 not to get a birdie there?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I had a few up-and-downs on the front that hurt pretty bad, 3, 6 and -- 3, 5 and 6, fairly easy up-and-downs and didn't get them up and down, hit decent chips just missed the putt.  
  
  Q. Did this feel easier than the PGA and the U.S. Open today?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Not really, but you know, still, majors, final group, I had a lot of fun out there today. Me and Darren, we had a good time, and I just didn't have my best stuff today. I hit the ball well, just couldn't hole the putts I needed to.  
  
  Q. Why do you think Darren had all the right stuff today?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, he holed a lot of key putts. He holed a lot of six, eight-footers for par that he needed to make that keeps that round going, keeps the momentum up.  
  
  Q. Did you have any exchanges?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, we talked a little bit around the course. We had fun out there.   
  
  Q. Is it easy to keep coming back from --  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, for sure. Obviously, like I say all the time, the more I put myself in this situation, the better, the more I learn, the more I understand my game and what happens in this situation. But you know, I think I did a pretty good job. It was very tough.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT