THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 5, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A 65 today. Obviously a fantastic round. I saw you looking at the leaderboard, but still a great round. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, you know, starting the day I was a little too far back. But I made a good run. I knew if I played a good round today that I could get up there maybe in the top 5, and that's what I was trying to do. But you know, I felt like I played really well all week, just didn't score that well. But today I finally got out of my round what I thought I should have. 
 You know, it was nice. I finally feel like my game is coming around and I'm starting to play a little better.

 Q. Obviously U.S. Open two weeks away, and you came so close last year. Is this momentum for you?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, for sure. I've been struggling a little bit all year. Just haven't really been that consistent. I've had some good weeks and had some really bad weeks. 
 You know, I finally feel like the game -- last week I played fairly well, and this week really the game turned around. I'm starting to hit a lot of good golf shots, driving it in the fairway and holing some putts. You know, I'm definitely excited about going into the U.S. Open.

 Q. All of the major champions now currently are European or foreign. How nice would it be to have an American, either yourself or somebody else, compete to win the U.S. Open?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously that would be nice. I think the Americans, we're playing really good right now. You know, the Euros, they're tough. There's a lot of good players, and they've been playing well in the majors. You know, one of us is going to have to step up and get a W at the U.S. Open. 

 Q. Three of the last four 54-hole leaders in majors have had a hard time on Sunday. Is that a matter of being a young guy in that position or is there a common thread?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, if you see, what was it, me, McIlroy and Watney, it was our first time holding a lead at a major. It's definitely a lot different. You know, you can -- you can say whatever you want. I mean, I even had a really good warm-up on Sunday when I had a three-shot lead, got off to -- had a good first hole, hit it right down the middle on 2, but just one -- I made triple on 2 after driving it right down the middle with a wedge in my hand. You know, it's not -- it's a funny game. It's definitely tough, and to know what that situation is like and to know what to expect in that situation is definitely a bonus. 

 Q. What kind of turned around at the PGA and you shook it off and were right there until the 72nd hole?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the PGA I played great all day long, just an unfortunate situation on the last hole. But I knew what to expect in that situation. I knew what I needed to do to succeed. You know, it definitely helped me, failing at the U.S. Open, or just really struggling. It definitely was a learning curve, and I used that to help me at the PGA. 
 Even at the U.S. Open, if I get in the same situation I know what to expect.

 Q. What's the biggest element or difference between 54-hole lead in the majors compared to a 54-hole lead in a regular TOUR event?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it's not -- it's definitely a little bit different, but obviously it's a little bit bigger tournament. But they all mean a lot, so you always want to win them. 
 But just being in the situation is what's the biggest part. You know, learning from that situation so the next time you're in it you know what to expect and you know how to react. But you know, it's just tough, especially for a first time.

 Q. Is this weather delay going to hurt or help with guys still left on the course?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I have no idea. Sometimes it fares good to you, but sometimes it hurts you. Steve is out there, he's playing really good golf right now, so I would have to imagine he's going to hold on.

 Q. Obviously he's tearing it up. Talk a little bit about his game. He never takes a week off and he's on the board always. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, last year I played really consistent for about six months, the last six months of the year. Just struggled a little bit this year. But I finally feel like I'm back in form where I'm going to play good every week, and that's what I need to do. 
 But yes, Steve is a great guy, and I mean, he's got a great game. Not too much can -- he drives it really straight, and as everyone knows, he putts the [expletive] out of it. This is a great golf course for him. 
 Hitting fairways and hitting greens, it doesn't matter how far away from the hole you are, you've got a good look at it because the greens are so good.

 Q. Have you ever putted with that heel-up style; toe-down, heel-up, you know what I mean? Nobody else out here does it. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: A few guys do it.

 Q. Kind of actually bend the putter so it sits --
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, he's been doing it for so long. Putting, everybody does it different. There's a lot of good putters out here and they all do it different. It's just about repetition.

 Q. What's your idea going into today, just had to make a million putts?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just make as many birdies as I can. That's all I can do is try to get off to a really good start and maybe put some pressure on the leaders early. 

 Q. Vijay today said he was not going to try to qualify for the U.S. Open and Chris Riley wasn't going to. What do you think about that, guys passing up the opportunity? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't. I would, but I'm in the Open, too. I don't know, but if I wasn't in, I'd be trying to qualify. 

 Q. Did you try in college to qualify?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, first time I tried was my rookie year here. I made it. But I never tried in college. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT