BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON: It's a pleasure to welcome Dustin Johnson to the BMW International Open, and a very special pleasure today because, congratulations, and happy birthday.  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Thank you.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: 27 today. Thought I would tell everybody. Thanks for coming in today, and maybe you could just tell us a little bit about last week before we talk about this week. You played all four rounds and finished tied 23rd. How did the week go for you? What did you think of the winner?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was a good week. Obviously I struggled a little bit. I really just -- I hit it poorly with the irons, and around that course, if you're not hitting it close to the hole, you're going to have a tough time. I just really struggled, but I hung in there and had a good weekend. You know, went from barely making the cut to T-23, so it wasn't a bad week.  
 GORDON SIMPSON: What was your take on Mr. McIlroy? There's been a lot said here in Europe and in the U.K. obviously about his victory. From an American perspective?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I played with him the first two days, and he just played, you know, really solid golf. He drove it in the fairway, hit it close to the hole, and he putted pretty good. He didn't putt great, but he holed the putts he was supposed to. He just, from tee-to-green, he just hit it beautifully.   
 I knew if he kept playing like that, then no one was going to beat him.   
  
  Q. The two rounds you played with Rory, what impressed you the most about him?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've played a bunch of golf with him, so I know he's good. And so you know it was just -- it was good to see him continue his brilliant play through the weekend, which you know, he played -- he didn't make really any mistakes except for on 18 on Friday.   
 But I mean, you're going to make a mistake. That was the only one he made though, I think, pretty much all week. When you have four rounds like that, I mean, especially at a U.S. Open, you're going to win.  
 GORDON SIMPSON: Does it just give you fresh stimulus and inspiration to go and do it yourself now?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, for sure. Obviously everyone saw what happened at the Masters, but you know, it's good for him to come back and play so well at the U.S. Open. So obviously I had a few chances last year, so you know, keep working hard and it will come around.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Shows what can be done, that nobody should ever give up because one slips away from you.  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: That's correct.   
  
  Q. We have had a lot of American golfers playing in this tournament; is it just a one-off for you, or are you planning being a bit of a globetrotter like Ernie Els and a few others from the American circuit?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know if I'll travel as much as Ernie, but yeah, I'm going to try and play some. The first few years on Tour, I didn't really travel. This year, I wanted to travel and play a little more international, so I'm going to do that and I'm going to probably continue to play a few events every year overseas.   
  
  Q. Will you take up European Tour Membership?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Maybe. I don't know. I haven't thought about it. I still have to play three more events I think. Yeah, it's a possibility.   
  
  Q. What's changed your mind? What's gives you the impetus to suddenly become a more international player than you've been?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know. Just want to travel. Wanted to play in other places other than just the U.S. I like travelling. I like playing for people everywhere. And I like visiting different countries. It's good that I can do that and come and play golf.  
  
  Q. Have you been listening to a lot of European players and international players who are on the PGA TOUR talking about their visits around the world? Has that been one of the reasons that made you think, well, I'm going to do this, as well, then?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously I've got a lot of international friends. They talk about tournaments and when they fit in the schedule, because right now, I was going to have three weeks off after the Open, but obviously I come here so now I only have two weeks off. So it kind of fit in my schedule very good.  
 GORDON SIMPSON: This is your first visit to Germany?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yes.   
  
  Q. You said you were struggling a bit at the U.S. Open. Do you know what the problem is, and if so, what do you do to rectify it?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I played better on the weekend. I just got off to -- I just played poorly on Thursday and Friday. But I hung in there and fought hard and made the cut. But you know, then obviously I hit it a little better on the weekend and shot 3-under.   
 I always kind of know what it is. Just sometimes it's hard to fix.   
  
  Q. Sorry to continue what I was talking about before, but with the advent of European Tour golf as being so strong in the world, is that in sort of the back of your mind, as well, playing them in their own backyard and seeing how your game shapes up to them? Obviously you have a very good game. But is there a sort of feeling that perhaps if you do play more on The European Tour, you're going to get some of the best competition?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I don't know. I play against them all the time, because they come play in the U.S. a lot. So it's not that I come over here just to play against them in their backyard. I like travelling, so I came over here. This is a great event and I think they do a great job. I'm very happy to come here and play.   
 You know, it's nice, though, to come play in Europe. I have fans here so it's nice to come and play for them.  
  
  Q. You do get different conditions in Europe week-to-week, where in America it's pretty well the same every week, isn't it?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, our golf courses, all the venues that we play, they are all manicured very well. We have fast greens. So I mean, it's pretty similar week-to-week. But it's nice to come over here and play in different conditions.   
  
  Q. European youngsters are creating headlines the last few months. What about American golf? Are there any youngsters where are they? Because it feels like a bit of stagnation. Is there something coming from behind? What condition is it?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Very good. We have a lot of good players, a lot of guys in their 20s -- you say young, I don't know what age you're talking about. But there's a lot of really good American players in their 20s.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I don't think so.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Rickie Fowler is not a bad player.  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: There's a bunch. Nick Watney, Hunter Mahan, trying to think, there's probably ten.   
  
  Q. Are you a DJ sometimes, perhaps Friday at a players party?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Just by initials only.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I could work some tables maybe.   
  
  Q. Martin Kaymer said yesterday the two of you kind of talked before you coming to Munich and you asked him about the tournament. Do you have a particular close relationship or it was just like a chat out on the range?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've known him for a while. I mean, we're friends, so we talk a lot whenever I see him at tournaments or wherever, we always talk or chat. So we are acquaintances, good friends.   
  
  Q. Is there something like a common bond because of your shared history in the PGA last year?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, guys who you play against a lot, you tend to become friends, especially really good players, you try to -- you're obviously with them a lot. So we see each other all the time, so, we talk, and we played the PGA and then again at The Ryder Cup. So we've got some history.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Thank you.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT