THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 2, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You birdied four of your last five holes coming home. Did something click as you were heading toward the clubhouse?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well, I holed out a bunker shot on 14, which definitely helped, and then I just had some good numbers coming in. I felt like I was in between clubs all day long. You know, the last few holes I got good numbers and was able to make some aggressive swings and hit some good shots and had a lot of good looks at it coming down the stretch.  
  
  Q. When you finish that well does that carry over into the second round?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, for sure. Today I got off to a great start. I birdied the first two holes, hit two good shots in there, made some putts. I feel really good over the golf ball right now. Just got to get it in the fairway and keep hitting good shots, but definitely closing out with four birdies out of the last five gives me a little momentum going into tomorrow.  
  
  Q. And finally, permanently you have Joe LaCava on your bag. You played with Freddie today. Was it fun, awkward, weird? You tell me.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it was fine. I mean, Freddie is a great guy. There's no hard feelings there. You know, we talked about it the other day. But everything is good, and I'm happy to have Joe working on the bag for me. I'm looking forward to having a few good weeks here coming up.   
  
  Q. Heck of a way to finish.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was great to finish that well. I got off to a great start, too. I just missed a few fairways in the middle of the round, and you struggle out here if you miss the fairways. But definitely pleased with my finish.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like it's something that can continue into the weekend for you?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I was talking to Joe this morning. I finally feel like the game is coming together. I'm starting to swing very well, and I feel really good over the golf ball. I'm starting to get a little of that feeling I had last year in those four or five months that I played really well.  
  
  Q. Do you think there's an advantage to you guys that post low this afternoon and get to go out early tomorrow?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, tomorrow we come out, we've got perfect greens, which the greens were perfect this afternoon, so I can't complain about anything. But come out tomorrow morning and the greens will be a little softer maybe, and hopefully put up a good number.  
  
  Q. 16, people had different opinions. They said it was really hard, but for some reason today it's soft. What difference did you see in that green?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, they definitely put some water on it, which they needed to. It was really firm on Tuesday and Wednesday when I played it, so it was definitely nice to see them put a little water on there because my ball stopped just fine.  
  
  Q. What was working there the last four or five holes?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, I just had good numbers. I felt like today, especially in the middle of the round I had a lot of in between numbers, so the last four or five holes I had really good numbers and was able to make good, aggressive swings and hit some really good shots.  
  
  Q. Any awkward moments with Joe on your bag and Freddie in the group?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it was good. Freddie is a great guy. There's no bad blood or anything like that. They were together for 21 years and are really close friends. Yeah, it was nice. We had a great time out there today.  
  
  Q. Talk about that transition, how that all came about.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, obviously I was looking for a caddie, and Freddie was -- he's hurt, he's struggling with his back right now, so Joe came and caddied for me at THE PLAYERS, and he wanted a full-time job, so I said yeah.   
  
  Q. Has he learned about your game? Freddie talked about him learning to club you.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, he's got it dialed in already. I don't think it -- especially with good guys, it doesn't take very long to club people.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT