MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. How did it play for you today?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, struggled a little bit. I drove it well, which I've been struggling with the driver, but I drove it pretty well. Just didn't make any putts. 3-putted a few times and I missed a few short ones, which hurt me pretty bad. 

 Q. Had to feel pretty good about making a little come back on the back there and did you think you were going to be able to continue that?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well, you know, I was feeling definitely -- I made a couple birdies and got to 1-over and then I hit it right down the middle on 15, I hit a really poor iron shot there though and I made four. And then missed a little short one on 16 for par. 
 Just never could get anything going today. 

 Q. How was it playing for like early in the morning, relatively speaking?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It doesn't really play, for the weather, it doesn't get any easier than this. It played pretty easy today. 

 Q. So that makes it more frustrating?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it was a little frustrating. Just really couldn't get anything going with the putter. 

 Q. The short one notwithstanding it looked like you were lagging fairly well. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, no, my speed was pretty good today. Again, it's just really hard to read these greens. It's hard, even when you hit them in there close, you kind of putt them almost defensively, unless you got an uphill putt. It seemed like I was putting downhill all day. 

 Q. Based on today, can you go, do you think you can be more aggressive tomorrow, less aggressive, or how do you look at tomorrow?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, I got to play aggressive.
 I got to shoot a good number tomorrow. So I'll come out firing and we'll see what happens. 

 Q. Did you come in this year with more expectations or every year you play here and you're rankings are a little higher and you come in with more expectation this year?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, a little bit. But it's just the first round. I played pretty poorly, but it's right there. 
 I'm driving it well, so as long as I can hit some good iron shots tomorrow and hole a few putts, we'll be all right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT