WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA HILL: Not the result you wanted, but I heard you say that if anyone was going to win, you were happy to see Nick do it. Just a matter of not making the puts you needed to out there.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I did everything I wanted to do. I came out and drove it well and hit a lot of great shots and just couldn't get it in the hole. 

 Q. It was a couple of years ago, it was Nick and Phil down the stretch, and this year with you; what is it that Butch is doing that is keeping you guys so competitive in this tournament?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, Nick's been playing a lot of good golf this year. He's been playing well every week. So I knew he was going to come out and play well today. I knew I was going to have to. But I did; I played really well. Just couldn't, like I said, I couldn't get in the hole with the putter. Hit a lot of great putts. They just were not going in. 

 Q. What's your relationship with Nick? Are you guys pretty close? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, we are really good friends. 

 Q. And last August, you guys were paired and you had tough days for different reasons; what do you remember about the day especially endured at Whistling Straits and seeing him handle himself today down the stretch? Were you happy to see that?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, it's always -- you know, it's always tough to watch someone struggle. I felt his pain. I did it in the U.S. Open. So it's always tough but you know, at Whistling Straits, I played really great, all day. Other than the unfortunate situation on 18. Other than that, I had a great day. I hung in there all day, even though the ball wasn't going in the hole again, but you know, made a couple of putts coming down the stretch. 
 But today, I hit a lot of good putts coming down the stretch. I just couldn't get it in the hole.

 Q. I know it came at your expense and that you wanted to win out there, but if it couldn't be you, was it nice to see a guy like him be able to close like that?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Nick is a good friend of mine. I told him walking off that if I was going to lose to somebody, I was glad it was him. And he played really well. I didn't give him the tournament. He earned it. He played well. 

 Q. Could you take us through the 16th hole? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, we were just trying to get it in the fairway. The flag is front, so I've got to hit it out in the fairway. With the wind today, the way it was, I couldn't get driver all the way up there where I could have a good shot at it. 
 But you know, just pulled it and hit it in the bunker which is not a good spot to be. They have got a 75-yard bunker shot. That's one of the hardest ones to hit. 

 Q. In front of you, be Nick seemed to be burying a lot of putts. Were you on the tee seeing a lot of them and does it force you to press or try to catch up or keep up? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I mean, I saw him all day. We were right behind him so I got to -- I was definitely seeing him roll in a bunch of putts. I didn't change my game plan or anything like that. I kept hitting good golf shots, kept having looks at birdie. But they just weren't going in for me. 

 Q. Can you talk about the look you had on 17? It looked like you had a pretty good birdie shot there, birdie putt there. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit a good shot in there. I knew I just wanted to keep it a little left of the flag which I did. I had about ten feet. Luke was on the same exact line as me so I got to watch him putt. 
 He hit a pretty good putt. I watched his move all the way across the hole. His broke about a foot, and I'm playing mine, you know, two balls out left and it doesn't even move. So it was just, I don't know, I can't explain it. I don't know why it did move. 

 Q. How long was it? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It wasn't anymore than ten, maybe 12 feet, max. 

 Q. And the other thing on 18, you saw him make the birdie, Nick; what went through your mind there? And what did you think when you hit that you? You came close?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I knew I had to make it. I had to hit it right at it, which I did. I hit a great shot in there. So I gave it everything I had. 

 Q. Did you think for a moment --
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: When it was in the air, I thought for a second it had a chance. I mean, it had a chance the whole way.

 Q. What was the club?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: 9-iron. 

 Q. 18 shot in? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I had 151. 
 LAURA HILL: Dustin, thanks for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT