MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The lowest round you've shot prior to today was a 70, and you had a 68 today. Did it feel good to finally get one on this course?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, other than the last hole. I'm pretty pissed off about that, being in the middle of the fairway with sand wedge and hitting it into the right bunker, which is the only place you can't hit it. But overall I played really good today. Drove it pretty well, hit my irons really good, and actually holed a couple putts. I didn't miss any short ones. I didn't hole any long ones, but I made a couple six-, eight-footers for birdie, and really pleased with my round.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday you were driving it well.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I drove it really well today. I hit one -- hit a bad one on 7, and I think that was the only bad drive I hit all day was on 7. Very pleased with my driver.  
  
  Q. The drive on 13, how long was that one?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know.   
  
  Q. About what you expected, or did you get it out a little further?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, it was about where I wanted it.  
  
  Q. How concerned were you on 15 when you watched the ball roll over the edge of the green? Did you know that it held up?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I knew it wasn't rolling into the water. I got a little lucky. It's a little sticky right now. But that is the softer side of the slope down there where I hit it. I ended up having a bad lie on my second shot, so it ended up being a really tough shot instead of a fairly simple one.  
  
  Q. Those kind of things probably kept your momentum going I'm guessing.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well, just -- I really played solidly, never put myself in a tough situation to make par, other than right here at the last hole. But I still had a good putt at par. I only had two long par putts today, and they were both holes that I made bogey on.  
  
  Q. I know at 11 you almost made a long one there?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I did, I almost --  
  
  Q. That was about a 50-footer, I think, right?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  
  
  Q. I know what you did on the back. Can you give me the birdies on 1, 2 and 8?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: 1, I hit a really good drive on 1, had like 140 hole, hit a 9-iron to about three feet and made it.  
 2, I hit driver, 6-iron in the right bunker and got up-and-down.   
 And then 8, I hit driver, 3-iron to about 20 feet just short of the hole.   
  
  Q. Based on today and how well you played, are you excited about tomorrow?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, the game is finally coming around, so I'm looking forward to this weekend. The putter feels pretty good. I'm starting to get some confidence out there, and I'm looking to come out and have a good weekend.  
  
  Q. A lot of people talk about you as one of the favorites. Is that something that motivates you?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, this golf course sets up really well for me. Obviously I got off to a rough start yesterday, but looking forward to this weekend. Going to go out tomorrow and play aggressive and try and make some birdies.  
  
  Q. You played a couple weeks ago with Rory McIlroy in Florida. Talk about that round and his game.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, I've known Rory for a while. We played Walker Cup against each other in '07, so I've known him for a while. You know, he's just a good player. He hits it pretty long. You know, just he's an all-around good player. He's got a good short game, putts it pretty well and drives it pretty well.  
 Yeah, this golf course, obviously he's making some putts. If you get the putter going out here, you can make a lot of putts.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT