FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2011
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great run on Sunday. It was fun until about the 17th hole when it started raining, huh?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the weather held up pretty good. It just rained for a minute, so it wasn't too bad.   
 Yeah, I had a good round going. I got off to a good start on the front and then missed a couple short ones on the back for birdie. But all in all, I had a great day, and I played really solid all day long.  
  
  Q. Did you have a number in your head when you started out where you thought you might need to get?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I needed to get 15. That's what I thought. I just needed to make a couple more birdies. I had a lot of chances, and I just couldn't make them.  
  
  Q. Did you feel a little cold and stiff having to wait on the 18th fairway there? You were only 175 away and you had a shot to get to 15 if you could have holed it?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I had to wait for a long time, but I just made the best of it. It's all right. You know, had a good day, so I'm not too upset.   
  
  Q. Are you going to play in Phoenix or take a week off before Pebble?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm playing next week.  
  
  Q. Playing right into it, huh?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Playing well. Did you find something this week, today particularly that really gives you some momentum?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well I was swinging really well all week. Had a lot of good golf shots, but didn't putt it particularly well the first few days. You know, I would say it was below average for me.   
 I finally holed a couple of putts today, but still only made 8 to 10-footers on a couple and that's it. But I just need to work on the putter a lot. I'm swinging really well, and driving it good, so it will be a good week next week too.  
  
  Q. Did the course play different today from the other couple of days you played on the South. Was there anything really different about it or was it pretty much the same?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's pretty much the same. It's playing hard. You have to hit really quality golf shots to hit it close to the hole.  
  
  Q. Did you end up playing short of pins and then figure it out on the bounce?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the ball would bounce with every club. Didn't matter what you were hitting, it was bouncing. So you definitely have to land it short of the flags to get it at them.   
 Lot of times you have to curve it, especially on Sunday. Today they had all the pins tough, so you had to curve it left or right or right to left to get it at the flag.  
  
  Q. You felt pretty good, didn't you?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I hit the ball pretty well today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT