THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2010
Stewart Cink
Dustin Johnson
Matt Kuchar
Phil Mickelson
Jeff Overton
Steve Stricker
Bubba Watson
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Bubba, talk about tomorrow?  
 BUBBA WATSON: It's going to be fun. We are two rookies. The sad thing is we are all good friends. I played college golf against Luke Donald, had dinner with Pádraig last night at the gala. You know, he's a Major Champion.   
 But I think it will be a good test of golf and we are four guys that like each other and that are friends off the golf course, it will be a tough battle. I think if me and Jeff make a lot of birdies, we'll have a great chance of winning the match.   
 STEWART CINK: They are all strong and I expect to lean on Matt Kuchar. We are great friends and I love the way he plays. We'll have a great time out there and we're going to give it a great fight and play with a lot of heart and it should be really fun. I'm proud to be a part of this Ryder Cup.   
  
  Q. Will the crowd be more behind them; do you feed off the crowd or Matt or what do you do?   
 STEWART CINK: You can feed off the crowd a little bit. If there's a negative crowd out there, you can feed off that, and I was telling people earlier that we hope to play and get off to a great start.   
 TIGER WOODS: Looking forward to it. Steve and I have obviously had some success in the past and looking forward to getting out there.  
  
  Q. Poulter and Fisher, will they feed off the crowd, feed off each other?   
 TIGER WOODS: The whole idea is to play well and whatever happens, happens. The whole idea is to get a point and that's what we are going to try to do.   
 JEFF OVERTON: It's going to take some birdies. At the same time, the weather looks like it could be a little rough tomorrow.   
 So it makes for a fun match. You have two of the best in Pádraig. Luke is a great player and has been playing great and me and Bubba. He's a heck of a player, and you know, it's going to be a different kind of format.   
  
  Q. Your observation on the pairing and how it looks to you?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: Well, Dustin and I know we have a very tough team in Lee Westwood and Martin Kaymer because Lee is one of the best players in the game and Martin just won a major championship and they are playing some extremely good golf. Dustin and I wanted to get off early, though. We enjoy playing first. We enjoy the challenge of playing a very difficult European Team.   
  
  Q. Pretty comfortable with Dustin?   
 PHIL MICKELSON: We get along very well and have played a number of practise rounds over the years and we enjoy spending time together.   
  
  Q. You and Phil going out against those guys in the first round, the way it looks.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it looks great. Obviously it's a strong team with Martin and Westwood; and me and Phil are a strong team, too. I think it's going to be a good match and we are going to go out and be aggressive.   
  
  Q. Are you pretty comfortable with Phil in practise rounds and so forth?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Me and Phil play a lot together. We are very comfortable together. We like playing together and get along great and bring a lot of energy. We are looking for a good, tough match tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Steve, your observations on the first pairing and how it looks tomorrow morning.   
 STEVE STRICKER: Very tough. Every match, no matter who you play, is going to be very tough. Hopefully Tiger and I can go out there and do the things that we know how to do and hopefully it's good enough for a win.   
  
  Q. You guys know each other well.   
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, we have been paired last year at The Presidents Cup together and hopefully we can continue that over to this year's event and do what we did last year.   
  
  Q. Matt, just take a look at that pairing and your position with Stewart, your initial observations about that.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Very excited. I think my game is a steady game, and Stewart has the power and ability to make tons of birdies. We are really excited to play better-ball because I think I can get things started with good, quality shots and he can really do some attacking.  
  
  Q. You obviously know it's an emotional home crowd going with Rory and Graeme but you can maybe feed off some different things possibly.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, Stewart has got the experience. I'm not sure how many Ryder Cups this is. It could be four or five for him. He's a guy I'm really glad to be paired with.  
  
  Q. You're ready and you want to get out there, first in the morning, I'm sure.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, been a nice, steady build. I haven't gotten too amped up yet, but it's been a steady, steady build to I'm sure the climax tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT