U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2010
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round of golf. And great way to finish, too?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Could you talk about how you were in the groove today?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I started off well. I drove it well today. I hit a lot of fairways. If I hit a lot of fairways I'm usually going to play pretty well. I was controlling my irons, especially the distance, pretty well today for the most part. I had a couple of loose shots.   
 But other than that I got it back together coming down the stretch and made two good birdies.  
  
  Q. So many people in the field and they're out in the practice rounds, and no way this thing is going to be decided under par, and Phil comes out and looking at Dustin, I think this thing is going to be made under. You're setting a bunch mark, not because of you, but because the way the course plays?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the course is playing very difficult. I've really hit the ball well this week. I've struck it solid, so I could stop it on the greens. I'm hitting my driver really straight, which is a big advantage for me, especially because if I'm in the fairway then I've got a lot shorter iron coming into the flag, and I can stop the ball.  
  
  Q. How great a birthday present would it be to be a U.S. Open champion?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You couldn't ask for a better present. This is what I live for. This is what I practice for every day. This is what we play golf for is to have a chance to win the U.S. Open.  
  
  Q. Some of the other guys on the leaderboard have been there before, the final round in a Major championship, what are you expecting it to be like?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's going to be like the rest of the day. I'm going to have to be really patient. If I keep hitting like I've been hitting and putting it in the spots on the green, then I'm going to be tough to beat.  
  
  Q. Things are so vital, you look cool as a cucumber?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think I'm very patient most of the time. Sometimes I can get a little patient, I'll hurry, I'll play a little fast. But tomorrow I'll just try to keep it slow, keep a good routine going like I've been doing, and take what the golf course gives me.  
  
  Q. Is there a vibe you fit into here on this golf course, the two wins at AT&T, but what is it about this case, it seems to bring out your best golf?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know. The first time I walked out here I loved the place. And I really enjoy playing golf here. You couldn't ask for a more beautiful place. And I just really enjoy it.   
  
  Q. Talk about your length and Tiger's length. If you look at the leaderboard there's a lot of length on there. Is there something about Pebble that rewards length? Nicklaus was long. Woods is long. And Watson said he never hit it longer in his life than the week he won The Open. What advantages are there to having length on this golf course, and where can you cash that advantage in on the course?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Length's an advantage a lot of places, but definitely here, especially if I'm hitting it in the fairway, because the ball is going a long way. I'm hitting it extra far. On these long par-4s, 9 and 10, you know, some of these holes where I can get it way down there I can actually stop the ball coming into the greens and that's where it plays a big advantage.  
  
  Q. I know you haven't had much time to get it digest, but is it a sense of thrill, excitement, this is what I've played for, talk about that if you could?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, this is exactly what I was saying. This is what I live for. This is what I practice every day for. This is what I go to the gym and do all the stuff that I do is to be in a position like this to go out and have a chance to win a U.S. Open.  
  
  Q. The biggest night of your life, what are you going to do tonight, give the fans a little view into what is going to happen?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Go to my room, order some room service and probably watch a little TV.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT