MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You drove it well today. You got that straightened out it looked like at least. Did the putter let you down any or was it the other stuff?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, a little bit of both. I didn't putt very well at all. I didn't make any putts, really. 
 Except for number 4, that's the only putt I made all day. 

 Q. How far was that?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: 25 feet maybe. But I missed a few short ones, I didn't, just didn't make anything. I had a lot of good looks, just didn't make nothing.

 Q. Did you feel you were making good putts or were you just, you actually didn't putt well today?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well a little bit of both. I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in and then I hit some poor ones. But it's kind of tough to get comfortable on the greens here, but when you do you can make a lot of putts because the greens are so perfect that if you hit it on the right line with the right speed it goes in every time. But I can't seem to get that going quite yet. 

 Q. Are you close enough to the -- I know today was more difficult pin placements, so were you close enough to make putts or were you having to play away from pins or how did that play out?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: There's holes where you got to, you just know you're going to have kind of a long putt. But on the holes that I had a chance to attack I did pretty good. And I had a lot of good looks, just missed a couple shorties. 
 I had another terrible bogey on 15. It was kind of the same thing as yesterday on 17. I was right there and I'm looking at probably just the easiest chip you could ever have, and I chipped it and hit it just a little too hard and lipped it out and then missed the putt coming back. 
 So it was a tough day, but it's playing tough out there. So not too disappointed with even par, but I'm right there to go low on the weekend. 

 Q. How is your iron game? As far as you hit it if you're in the fairway, which you were I think only two holes you missed, as far as I saw it, usually you can attack with your length. So are your irons okay to play this week?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the flags are very difficult, especially today they're really difficult. So it's hard to be too aggressive. I was aggressive when I could be and then played a little safer when I had to. 
 But overall I'm not disappointed at all with the way I hit the ball. I don't think I hit really any poor iron shots. I mean I hit even on 7 kind of.

 Q. You had a great drive, have you ever had a longer drive there?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I nailed it on 7. I had 103 yards a little downwind which is a perfect 60. And I hit it, it flew about a yard too far and went in the back bunker. Then I hit a decent bunker shot, I had a terrible lie back there, there was some wet sand up behind my ball, and then hit a good putt, just hit the right lip, so. But it was a rough day with the putter for sure. 

 Q. You mentioned 15. What did you hit in there on the green?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit 3-wood just over the back, which is not, I mean which is very difficult to that flag. And I knew it was. But it's also a very hard, laying up a wedge shot is very difficult. 
 But I hit a really good pitch, I thought and it just, instead of grabbing, it almost had top spin and just rolled down to the front fringe and 12 feet straight up the hill and got just a little chip and hit it a little hard and it hit the right edge. 

 Q. What are your thoughts, you're in the weekend and probably getting in contention you probably need a pretty decent round tomorrow. Is there anything you look to attack tomorrow?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Saturday is always moving day. A good solid round is going to put me in there to make a run on Sunday. But I just need to shoot 4- or 5-under tomorrow and play well and see where I'm at.

 Q. Does that mean you think you'll come out aggressive or do you have to wait and see how it's set up?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's going to depend on the wind and the flag positions, but yeah, I'm going to have to come out and just with a lot of confidence and probably attack some flags. 

 Q. Because you're not too far behind the lead, but you're in the Top-20. So there's a couple guys up there. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think a lot can happen out here though. 

 Q. Go through a few of your birdies today if you want to. To accentuate the positives. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit it on the green in two on No. 2 and made birdie there. Just 2-putted. I mean I just barely hit that one there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT