QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2010
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about your round today.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was up and down all day. I didn't particularly drive it very well today, so this golf course if you're not driving it good, then you've got a tough time.   
 Luckily I chipped and putted pretty well. I still had some opportunities to play a little better than I did, but as bad as I hit it, I'm pretty happy with my round.  
  
  Q. You're still in a great position going into tomorrow. Is an operative word for this tournament, this day, for this course, "patience"?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you've definitely got to be patient. You've got some holes you can attack and make birdie, but there's a lot of tough golf holes out here, especially the finishing holes; 16, 17 and 18 are very tough. You've got to drive it in the fairway, though.   
  
  Q. What was wrong out there for you today?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, just couldn't seem to get anything going today. I'd make a birdie and then -- I made a lot of good pars, though. I didn't hit it very well today, especially off the tee, so around here hitting out of the rough all day is not fun, especially you've got to be able to control your golf ball as it comes into these greens, and if you're in the rough, you're not going to make birdies out of the rough. It's just too hard to get close to these flags. I'm pretty happy with where I'm at. I'm in a good position to play a good round tomorrow and make a run at it, but as far as my round today, it was pretty bad.  
  
  Q. You've won a couple times on the PGA TOUR, so you know that sometimes over the course of four days you actually have to throw out one bad day. Do you think that today was one of those throw-out rounds?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's definitely the worst I've played, but I did get around fairly well. My short game saved me today for sure, and now I'm going to go to the range and work it out and get ready to play good tomorrow.  
  
  Q. When you look ahead on a golf course like this, do you have to kind of think about how you're going to plot your way through the entire 18?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, this golf course you've definitely got to think your way around it. Especially tomorrow I'm sure there's going to be a lot of tough flags, and the greens are so fast that you've really got to be precise with your irons coming into these greens. And from what I hear, the wind is supposed to blow a little bit tomorrow, so it's going to be pretty interesting. If you can get out and make a few birdies early and get something going, then you're going to have a shot to win.   
  
  Q. You're still in a good position.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm in a great position. You know, anything can happen. Whoever plays well tomorrow is going to win. There's a lot of guys right there, and the guy that's going to come out tomorrow and get off to a good start and plays well is going to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT