QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2010
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you sorry this round had to end today?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I probably wouldn't have minded playing a few more holes, but you know, I played well today. I got off to kind of a slow start. I mean, even though I birdied the first hole, I made a long putt, it wasn't like -- I didn't drive it down the fairway and hit it close.   
 But got off to kind of a slow start. I hit a lot of good shots that started from about 5 to coming home, especially on the last seven holes on the back. I really hit some really good tee balls and some really good iron shots and made a few putts.  
  
  Q. You mentioned that you were waiting -- probably in two different tournaments, you've been waiting for one putt to drop to maybe kick-start you. The five-footer on the first hole had to feel pretty good.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, I never felt like I was putting bad, it's just nothing was going in the hole. I was a little off in my speed or a little off in my line. Finally today I matched up the speed and the lines and made a lot of putts.   
  
  Q. A couple 350-yard drives, one set up an eagle, I think one set up a birdie. Do you feel like this is what you're capable of, long drives, stiff iron shots, long putts?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, you know, if I'm driving it down the fairway, especially when I'm hitting it solid off the tee, it's going a long way. So when I'm in the fairway, I mean, I'm going to be pretty deadly just because I've got such a short iron into the hole.   
 You know, I felt like the last two hours of my round today I really found my swing and started hitting some really good iron shots. Other than my three-putt on -- I three-putted 13, I just -- I don't know what I was thinking on my first one; I hit it like ten feet by the hole. But other than that, I rolled the ball beautifully today, so looking forward to that tomorrow.   
 I feel like I found my swing, I got -- my driver is going straight, so I'm playing really good.  
  
  Q. Are you going to avoid the range today just because everything is going so well at the moment?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I'll probably go have some lunch and then go practice for a little while, just keep it dialed in.   
  
  Q. Your putting the last few weeks you've been trying to find something, and obviously that was working today for you.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, like I was saying, I never felt like I was putting bad. I wasn't making bad strokes, I wasn't doing anything wrong other than maybe my speed was a little bit off and my line was a little bit off. But finally I really took my time on the greens today and picked out a good line and went with it every time and trusted it. You know, I had myself in good spots to make putts. It wasn't -- I wasn't having -- like yesterday it seemed like I was putting downhill sliders all day long, so it's hard to make those, especially out there.   
 Today I left my iron shots in better spots and I had uphill putts so I could be more aggressive with them. I never missed any putts today that I thought I should have made.  
  
  Q. And maybe this is just perception, but it looked like you were even more aggressive off the tee today. Were you feeling good with your driver today more so than yesterday?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well, starting on -- my tee shot on 11 -- 10, I got away with it because I kind of drew it strong, but after 11, I blocked one on 11 pretty bad, like 30 yards right of where I was looking. It wasn't like a cut or just a straight block. I kind of figured out what I was doing wrong, and from there on in everything I hit was right at the flag and right down the middle.   
  
  Q. You said you felt like yesterday you hit them straight but a little thin?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I hit them straight yesterday but everything was off the bottom. I didn't hit one solid drive yesterday. Everything was thin. It kind of wears on you after a while. I'm used to hitting a driver solid, and yeah, today, I'm swinging a little smoother, trying not to hit it too hard, and just started hitting it really solid and really straight.   
  
  Q. You've got to like your position now a whole lot better than you did after yesterday's round. You're back in the running now.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah. I shot 1-over, but I didn't feel like I played that bad. I thought I played a lot better than I scored, I just didn't score yesterday. I had a few up-and-downs and I had a few good ones, and I just missed a lot of short putts yesterday.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT