AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2010
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  \ JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Dustin Johnson, thanks for joining us. Over at Monterey, carded a 68 today and 10-under. Still some players out there finishing their second rounds, but certainly in a great position heading into the weekend. Maybe a few comments about the round and we'll take some questions.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Let's see, got off to a kind of rocky start. Made some good pars, you know, then started hitting it better coming around the last few holes. I started on the back nine, so my front nine last few holes had a bunch of opportunities. Made a couple birdies. 
 You know, hit it real close on pretty much every single hole on the front nine, which was my back side, and could in the make a putt. Hit 'em all good, and I had three or four lip out. 
 It was a good day. I hit the ball really well. Just couldn't get the ball to go in the hole as well as I did yesterday.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: We'll take some questions. 

 Q. What's it like playing in nice weather, which you weren't able to do last year? You see things differently out here? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, you know, today was the first time playing Monterey, so the day I played it, Tuesday, the weather was horrible. 
 So it was a little bit better to see it today with a little bit of sunshine and not so much wind and rain.

 Q. Is it playing differently? I mean, I know they're lipping, but...
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the course over there is in great condition. Not too soft. The greens are still pretty soft. But the fairways, you know, the ball is not plugging at least. The course is in great condition. I played a good, solid round today. You know, just a few putts to drop here and there and it would have been a really good run.

 Q. (Question regarding the Spyglass course.) 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I like Spy. Fits my eye well. I played a few rounds there, so I'm comfortable with all the holes. I think I got good game plan working for tomorrow. 

 Q. The other day when were talking about the par-4 that you barely reached, what did you hit to that hole today?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: 8-iron today, so...
 16. They had the tee way up. They were only playing it probably 450 instead of 500.

 Q. A lot of players love the short course the last couple days. Did it live up to the hype for you, and did it compare to Poppy at all? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, I like Poppy. I played well there both the times I played it. But, um, the shore course is a great course. I like it. I had fun today.
 It was a little slow today. I think it took about 40 minutes longer today over there than at Pebble yesterday. Took us about six hours today. So it was pretty slow, so hard to get in a rhythm.
 But, you know, it was a very nice day. The golf course is beautiful. You know, I had a lot of fun.

 Q. On Pebble yesterday, any pace improvement with the smaller field?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, yesterday I think we played about 5:20, I think, so we moved along pretty good. Played quick on the front and slowed down on the back. We moved pretty good.
 Today there was a lot more waiting I think than yesterday.

 Q. On any of the days, you ever have any double groups on tee? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't think so. I remember a couple times you would have two, three groups on a tee every once in a while.

 Q. So it's working?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think with the field size a little smaller, it's definitely speeding up a little bit. I don't know why today took so long, but I think it was the two groups ahead of us were pretty slow.

 Q. Right now, you're one of five players tied for the lead. Just your thoughts on being in the lead right now. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, I struggled a little bit today on the putting green. But other than that, I'm hitting it very well. I'm playing good. Making good decisions. 
 You know, so I'm very comfortable where I'm at, and looking for a good day tomorrow. 

 Q. Winning here one year, you come back, even though it was a little shortened because of the rain, and now are you sort of, This is my tournament, my golf course. On all the courses, do you feel much more comfortable than you would, say, coming in here a year ago?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the more rounds you get in a tournament, the more times you see the golf course the more comfortable you get. 
 You know, I've been playing well, so I've very confident. I'm comfortable out here. I like the courses. I think they suit me very well. I'm looking forward to a good weekend.

 Q. What was the line off the tee you took on 8? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No. 8 where, Pebble? 

 Q. Right. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No. 8 was the hole I made a bogey. I was trying to hit it right down the middle. I just pulled it and hit it right in the bunker.

 Q. You were probably I'm going to guess 14, 15 years old or so when David Duvall was No. 1 in the world. Do you have any recollections of him from back then, and what do you think of when you hear or see his name now?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, well, yeah, I mean, I definitely remember, you know, watching him play. You know, he was an unbelievable player then, and he's still a great player. He struggled a little bit for the past few years, but I think it's -- it's nice to see his name back up there. 
 Everyone knows that he's a great player and he has the talent and the ability to win. Pretty cool to see him back up at the top.

 Q. You ever find yourself pulling for him?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, yeah. He's definitely one of my golfers I pull for. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Anything else? Okay. Dustin, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT