NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 5, 2010
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS REIMER: We want to thank Dustin Johnson for coming down. I know it was a long, wet and probably cold day. You had some fun out there, as well. Talk about the round a little bit.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, got off to a good start again. Hit a couple good shots on 1 just short of the green, hit a good chip, made birdie on 1. Then hit a real good shot on 4 to about ten feet, made it, so I was 2-under through 4 playing well.   
 Hit a couple good shots on 5, too, just missed the putt. And then 6 was probably my best shot of the day, hit 8-iron and made it. So that always helps the round a little bit.   
 You know, and then from there, I played well. I just started on the back side, hit a couple of squirrelly shots with the wind and the clubs getting wet. But my putter kept me in there, made a couple good putts for par.   
 Made my first bogey on 15 today, just kind of a funky stance beside the bunker and chunked it a little short of the green and didn't get up-and-down. But overall pretty good day. Very happy with my round, and looking forward to finishing up tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What is the key to playing well in conditions like today, and can you also describe what it was like, the conditions during the day?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it rained all day, never stopped. But it drifted from light to raining pretty good. It was pretty chilly out there, cold and wet. On a day like today you've just got to stay patient and don't get frustrated with the weather. You're going to hit bad golf shots. It's just going to happen, especially in these conditions. Club is going to slip, foot is going to slip, something is going to happen. You're going to hit a bad shot. You've got to stay patient and try not to get frustrated.  
  
  Q. You laid up for the first time in your life yesterday on 10 to make an easy 4. You hit driver today in the rain to make a hard 4?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Pretty much. Well, today the tees were up a little bit, and the wind was kind of helping off the left. I just hit a poor tee shot. I was not trying to hit it to the right, and I just hit a poor tee ball. But I made 4, so...  
  
  Q. The putts you made on the back were pretty important. Just as exciting?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, those are the kind of putts that keep your round going, keep you positive and kind of keep the momentum going. So yeah, they were definitely important putts.   
  
  Q. You played pretty well at Pebble Beach last year and got rewarded with rain, and you're playing well in the rain here. Do you just like West Coast rainy weather?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't like it, but do I mind playing in it, no. I mean, everyone has got to play in it. I don't mind it. It doesn't bother me, especially hitting it a long way helps, too, because the course is by far the longest I've ever seen this course play. I mean, it's playing really long right now. I mean, but I enjoy it. It's all right.   
  
  Q. On 11, for example, that would seem like a hole you could get home in two on most days. What did you have there?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: 11? Today I hit a good drive down the left side and ripped a 3-wood and still had 100 yards in. Usually it's a driver and maybe a -- some days it might be 3-wood if it's into the wind, but usually I can hit driver and a 3-iron on the green.   
  
  Q. A minute ago you noted that it was chilly out there, yet you were one of the few guys with no sleeves. Comments, please.   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm not a big fan of wearing a lot of clothes when I'm swinging. I just feel restricted. But I've always -- even in college, I've always played with a short-sleeved range jacket. It's just more comfortable to me. I was pretty warm. As long as I keep my hands warm and your feet warm, then usually you stay pretty warm. It didn't affect me at all.   
 CHRIS REIMER: That's your second hole-in-one?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I had one at Colonial on 13.  
  
  Q. What are you anticipating tomorrow?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, we're going to play. The course is holding up pretty well. It's not real wet out there. There's hardly any standing water, so unless it just downpours, we're going to play tomorrow. It's going to be about the same weather, I think. It's not looking any different. You know, I had one day of practice in it, so we'll get another day tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What did you think when you came to the course and saw that Stricker put up a 65 today?   
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously Stricker is a great, great player. But he's not the longest hitter, either. So it's out there. You've just got to hit good golf shots. If you drive it straight and hit solid iron shots, you're going to have a lot of looks at birdie.   
  
  Q. You were talking about keeping your hands warm. How did you keep your hands warm today?  
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Gloves. I don't know, just some gloves that I have in the bag.   
 CHRIS REIMER: Thanks for coming in, Dustin.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT