DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 65 today. Tell me about your round. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I got off to a good start. I hit two good shots on 1 and it just came off the green. I hit two good ones on 2, got to about 15 feet for eagle. Just got the day started. I hit it at the flag all day, had lots of good birdie putts, just didn't quite make as many as I could have. It was just a good, solid day. I hit it in the fairway all day with my driver, and you know, the times I missed the green I got up-and-down. It was a fairly easy day.

 Q. I watched you play last year at Turning Stone when you won on Sunday, and you won earlier this year at the AT&T. Are you starting to feel more comfortable out here?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm getting a lot more comfortable out here. The more times you play, the more comfortable you're going to get. I'm definitely starting to get in a comfort zone where I'm competing every week out there. I'm looking forward to this weekend. 

 Q. Are the conditions as good as yesterday or even better for scoring?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I thought it was fairly similar, but you know, the wind is not blowing too hard. It's definitely is very similar to yesterday. The greens are about the same firmness, everything.

 Q. Any particular clubs that have been working for you today?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, the driver was working well. The putter wasn't working so good, but the driver, I drove it straight, hit a lot of fairways today.

 Q. Is the mentality out there at this course knowing there's a lot of birdies to be had? Are you almost preaching more aggression than conservatism out here in the early rounds?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, you've just got to pick your -- there's a few hard holes where you want to make a 4, and then other than that, if you can get it in the fairway you've got to attack every flag. But you know, the key is getting it in the fairway. If you're not in the fairway you can't attack these flags. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT