HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Dustin, the good news is 66 is never a bad score. The bad news is you were 6-under after 8 holes and it was looking like it could have been something special. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I really had it going early, and still even early I wasn't hitting my tee balls too well. I got a couple good breaks. I was putting very good today. I putted good all day. I just couldn't get it in the fairway.

 Q. When is the last time in nine holes you had to invoke the off the side of the hazard rule twice?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know. I don't ever recall doing it, but I did it twice today. It worked out well for me. Made a good save on 10 and came close to making it go in on 18. 

 Q. Let's talk about the front nine where you ended up shooting 30. You had it going. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I did. I had it going early, made some good putts. I was hitting it really well. You know, I struggled getting it in the fairway, but when I was in the fairway I capitalized and made birdie just about every time. I need to go to the driving range and work on the tee balls a little bit. But overall I'm very confident, putter is going good. So I'm ready for tomorrow.

 Q. You ended up making a bogey on 9. You then take an unplayable on 10, and the shot probably everybody is going to be talking about tonight, you elect to go play out of the 11th fairway from 196 yards. First of all, could you even see the flag where you were, and then describe the shot. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I could see it if I took a step left of my ball, but I had a tree kind of right in the way. I could see the green pretty good. But I hit a great shot there. I made a good up-and-down to save par.

 Q. You come in with a couple of bogeys, including finding the water here on 18. These are tough finishing holes. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, 16 is not real tough and I bogeyed it. I was in that right rough, and I hit 7-iron and it went 240. 18 I just hit a bad tee ball. We'll go to the driving range and fix that and come out ready for tomorrow.
 I got off to a great start, played well on the front. Bogey at 9 to shoot 5-under on the front. But really played solid, and turning on the back I struggled with my tee balls a lot. I couldn't get in the fairway. Playing here out of the rough is not fun. I ended up with 66, so that's never bad. I'm right there in it and ready for tomorrow.

 Q. Talk about the last three holes. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: 16 I hit a fairly decent drive, just a couple yards too far right and I was in the right rough. I had 218 flag, and I hit 7-iron in out of that rough. The ball can go a long way, and it did. It went 240. We were talking about -- I was talking about it with my caddie, long and left is not a place to miss it, and we ended up long and left. 

 Q. And then on 18?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, same as it's been the last couple days. I got a good target there. I've been missing my driver right all day, and just made a bad swing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT