NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2009
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about the round, 66, very nice, and just one bogey. You're not making many bogeys. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, my short game is really good right now. You know, I hit it pretty good, made a couple of good putts. I missed a few short ones, and I hit it fairly well. Hitting really solid. Driving it pretty good. Usually works out to be a good score.

 Q. How do you stay in the groove? Just after you win, was it because maybe you didn't finish it off? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, golf, when you're playing well, you just kind of keep going. You know, I've been working pretty hard on the game and it's feeling good right now. Everything is going well. Everything feels really good. 

 Q. What are you going to do while you're out here this weekend, L.A. and Hollywood; will you get yourself in any kind of trouble this week?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No. I'm trying to lay low this week. This is my fifth week in a row, so got to take it easy, rest. 
 I've been playing very good. The last few weeks. My coach is out this week and just kind of tuned up a little bit and just worked on the posture and take away. Other than that, everything feels good. Driving it well and chipping and putting it good. 
 So I'm playing very well right now. 

 Q. So many people know who you are now; what is the confidence level for you now after winning and heading into next week's tournament? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Confidence, even if you're not swinging that well, or playing that good, when you're real confident -- even your bad shots are not that bad. They are still around the flag where you have to either look at birdie or get a good chance to make par. 
 They are very confident and that definitely helps in golf.

 Q. How about the course conditions? They seem like they are set up for some low scores. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, the greens are very receptive and it's a little easier to hit the fairway this is year, because the ball is not rolling as much. You know, if you drive it well and you're hitting your irons, controlling your irons very good, you're going to play well. 

 Q. So are you still the same Dustin Johnson after you've won a tournament now?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I'm still the same. I haven't changed. 

 Q. What happened with the trap shot out of 6? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: We thought we hit a good number to keep short of the trap and I hit it good and I think the wind helped it a little bit since I drew it a little bit and just pulled it a little too far. I made a good safe there. 

 Q. Who is your coach? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: My college coach, Allen Terrell. 

 Q. He's the main guy?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT