TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2008
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ: We'd like to welcome Dustin Johnson into the interview room, 4 under par with a 68 today under what had to be some very difficult conditions. Maybe just talk about the weather and coping with it, and then we'll open it up for some questions.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: The weather obviously is very cold outside. It's been windy and rain on and off. So it's very difficult, especially, you know, just to judge the wind and how far the ball is going to go and how far it's going to move it either way. It's tough. 
 You just got to -- a lot of times you're just trying to get something around the hole where you can make an easy par.
 JOE CHEMYCZ: 4-under par, 68 for you today, six birdies. Obviously you're playing well.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I hit the ball really well today. Other than a couple -- I hit a couple bad shots. Other than that, I hit the ball really well and made a few putts. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: The rain came and the hail came with you on 18. How frustrating was that? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it -- well, it was actually kind of nice, because it was really bad when we were walking up to the green on 18. So I got to go inside and warm up before I hit my putt. Didn't help because I missed it.

 Q. Was it easier? Same as yesterday? Harder? Easier? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I would say it's around the same. The wind this morning didn't blow quite as hard as yesterday afternoon. I mean, it was really blowing, so it was probably a little bit easier. 
 Towards the end of the round the wind picked up and got a little bit tougher. Probably the first nine or ten holes it played okay. 

 Q. On 16 green, going to 17, the wind started to pick up. The weather just changing back and forth like it's okay, and then all of a sudden a front might come through. How do you cope with that? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, the sun was shining when we were walking up to 16, and then we get on the green and I think the temperature dropped about 15 degrees and the wind actually switched. It was coming out of the right and ended up coming straight down. 
 Just, I don't know, you just got to -- it's kind of hard to judge. You can't really tell when it's going to do that, so you just got to go with it. 

 Q. Do you have any fun playing in something like this? Is there the kid that comes out of you that says, you know, we did this when we were 15? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I did this in college a lot. We didn't have a choice then, and you don't really have a choice now. So, I mean, I enjoyed it today. I played well, so I always enjoy it.

 Q. Do you look at it as more of a challenge? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's definitely a challenge. You know, kind of -- you got to be tough out there. I like it when it's difficult. 

 Q. You consider yourself a mudder? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, it really doesn't matter. I don't care what kind of weather it is. I'm going out to play golf, so...

 Q. Can we do the scorecard?
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Yeah, take us through the birdies, starting at 1 there.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, 1 hit it down the middle and then actually I hit a great wedge shot to about three feet. I had a simple putt, so it was a nice birdie to get started. 
 Then also on 4 I hit actually a pretty big drive and only had a little chip sand wedge in and hit it about three feet, too. So it was another pretty much straight in, up-the-hill putt. 
 Missed a couple shorties on 5. Trying to think. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: How short? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I don't know, eight feet. Hit a pretty good one on 6, too, for about 15 feet. 
 And then 8, I hit two good shots right in front of the green and chipped it up to about a foot. That was just a tap-in birdie. 
 9, I made a pretty good putt about a 10-footer straight down the hill, so I was feeling good. 
 Then I missed a short one on 10 and 11 for par.
 JOE CHEMYCZ: How far were those? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: Missed about probably a ten-footer on 10 and then maybe a five-footer on 11. 
 And then made a good putt on 13 from about 20 feet left of the hole. 
 Then on 14 I made about 40- or 50-footer, so that was... 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Those help, don't they? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: They do help. A lot. Then I had chances on 16 -- well, on 17 -- chances on 16 and then I was seven or eight feet on 18 and just missed it. 

 Q. What do you do in those 16 minutes when you're delayed? Do you try to stay mentally in your round? How do you handle it?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: I went inside and had some food. I was hungry. Just trying to stay warm. It was -- I mean, when that front came through it was -- I mean, the temperature, it was really cold, so I just went inside and had me a little bit of food, waiting around. 
 We got lucky where were sitting right on 18 green, so...

 Q. I talked to a number of the guys on the range Tuesday and Wednesday, and I was asking, Who's got a really good swing out there? They said, Look at Dustin. Who developed or helped develop your swing? Who are you working with now?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: My dad, I grew up and my dad taught me. He was a head pro at a golf course. He taught me growing up, and then I worked with Jimmy Koosa and Kevin Britt for a little while in high school. They were local club pros. 
 And then when I went to college I started working with my college coach, Allen Terell. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Anything else? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT