AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2008
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Dustin Johnson, thanks fore joining us after a third round 68 here at Pebble Beach this afternoon.  You're 7-under for the tournament and two off the lead of Dudley Hart, who's currently the leader in the clubhouse.  Your rookie season is off to a good start and a great week for you so far.  Maybe some opening comments. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  Yeah, I've been playing pretty well.  I got off to a rough start yesterday, but I managed to get it back together.  You know, I actually started pretty bad today.  I had a really bad bogey on 10.  But I holed out on 13, so that helped.  Then just played pretty solid the rest of the way. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Being your rookie season, I don't know what your expectations were.  You played in the Walker Cup and did some really great things in college as an amateur, but give us an idea of your expectations.  You're playing well so far. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  I played the Texas Open.  I got a start there.  So I kind of had a feel for the competition and how good these guys are out here.  And so I've been playing pretty well, and I really think I can compete with them. 

 Q.  Who do you work with? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  I work with Allen Terrell, the golf coach at Coastal Carolina. 

 Q.  Did you grow up in Myrtle Beach? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  No, I grew up in Columbia, South Carolina. 

 Q.  Talk a little bit about the success you've had so far in your rookie year.  You've got two Top 10s already. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  I finished 10th in Hawai'i and 12th at the Hope. 

 Q.  Now you're only a shot behind or two shots behind.  Just talk about did you expect this four weeks into your rookie season? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  Well, it's kind of hard to know what to expect.  I knew I could play with these guys, so I knew if I played well I definitely could compete. 

 Q.  You had an eagle today, you holed out, and then you had an eagle yesterday, too? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  Yeah, I chipped in from about 30 yards yesterday, and then today I holed out from about 85 yards, I think. 

 Q.  You seem pretty cool.  Have you experienced rookie jitters at all?  And also, are there any guys out here, when you see Vijay or whatever, do you think, hey, I've seen that guy on TV, kind of impressed? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  Yeah, it's nice to stand next to and talk to a lot of guys who I grew up watching, Davis Love, Vijay, Tiger, Phil.  It's nice to sit and hit balls next to them and play with them.  Growing up it's always been a dream just to play on the TOUR. 

 Q.  Any jitters?  Are you nervous? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  Well, after the Walker Cup, that's probably the most nervous I've ever been standing on the first tee there.  Yeah, I still get nervous, but no real jitters. 

 Q.  What's your history on this course?  Is this the first time you've been here? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  This is the first time I've ever been here.  I got to see it once on Wednesday.  That was the first time I've ever been out here. 

 Q.  Have you ever played it in video games or anything? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  Yeah, I definitely played it on the Tiger Woods video game. 

 Q.  How did you play it? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  I played it pretty well on the video game (laughter).  It's not quite as easy in real life, let me tell you. 

 Q.  Does that help you at all, playing as Tiger, to see how the holes play? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  No, it does not, not at all.  You hit it a little further and a little straighter on the video game. 

 Q.  Are you young enough to be nervous tomorrow? 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  I mean, I'm sure I'll be nervous.  I'm nervous every time I tee it up.  You know, it's not like -- I don't think it's going to hurt me. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could touch on your round today.  You started on the back side and bogeyed the first hole.  Maybe we'll go through your birdies and bogeys. 
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:  Well, yeah, No. 10, I hit my drive in the bunker, then hit a terrible shot out of the bunker and into the right hazard and then chipped it up on the green and missed the putt. 
 No. 11, birdie, hit two good shots to a foot and tapped it in for birdie. 
 Eagle on 13. 
 18, made a birdie on the par-5, hit it just in front of the green in two and then two-putted from the front edge of the green. 
 Then on the front side, bogeyed the par-5, No. 2, that wasn't a good one.  I bogeyed 2 and then parred 6 both from the middle of the fairway with around 200 yards in.  Those were definitely two holes that I let get away. 
 Consecutive birdies on 3 and 4, made two good putts on 3 and 4, probably 15 feet, you know, just hit good shots in there. 
 Then I had real good chances on 6, 7, 8, 9 and just couldn't get it to go in. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT