AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 7, 2020
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Other than bogeying the last hole, how would you assess your round? Were you happy with it?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I played really well. I gave myself a lot of chances. I mean, I made a lot of 6-, 7-footers, but also missed quite a few. But I hit it nicely. Gave myself a lot of good looks. Obviously, the only bogey was on the last hole of the day. I just missed a 3-footer for par. But all in all, I'm pretty happy with it. I felt like I played pretty well and I gave myself a lot of good chances.   
 Q.  With those short misses, do you feel like you left a few out there then?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, I definitely left some out there, but I, that's every day playing golf, I think. But, yeah, I mean, I'm happy with the round.   
 Q.  What are you looking at as far as when you go to Pebble tomorrow as far as what you're looking to kind of get out of that round?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I mean, obviously, I think the wind's going to blow a little bit more tomorrow. But it's, yeah, I mean, you just got to -- that course is, greens are a little bit firmer and a little faster, so as long as I can hit the ball and control my golf ball and hit it in the right spots, I'm definitely looking to go shoot a nice score on Pebble.   
 Q.  Is this the best you've been swinging it for some time?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's okay.   
 Q.  Not great?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm swinging it all right. I'm getting it around pretty well. I'm not making -- I'm controlling the golf ball pretty well. I'm not hitting it -- I'm driving it pretty good, not -- no wild drives or anything. I felt like I controlled the drives very well today and yesterday. I'm striking the irons pretty well. It's not easy to get them close and I felt like I got a lot, I hit a lot of good shots today. So I'm pleased with the way I'm swinging it.   
 Q.  You don't feel like you got enough out of your round today, it sounds like you're saying.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I didn't, but that's every day playing golf, I feel like. You can always get some more out of your rounds.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON: But, yeah, I definitely had some, I made some nice putts but also missed quite a few short ones for birdies. And then obviously, the last hole for, I missed a short one for par.   
 Q.  That happens.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well (Indicating) these are a little shaky.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT