SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 2, 2020
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A final round of 67 for sole possession of second. Give us your thoughts on that?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously another day where it could have been a lot better. I'm happy with the way I'm playing. It was difficult to putt, though. It was really hard to make putts. I hit a lot of really good shots, and really good chances for birdie. You know, when you've got a left-to-right slope and you're playing it outside the right, it's tough. I was still missing them left. It was just hard to judge how much the wind was actually going to move the ball.   
I'm pleased with the way I played, but I would have liked to give Graeme a little more pressure coming down the stretch. I had some really good chances. I missed a real short one on 13, a close one on 14, 15, 17. I had all the chances, but I did finally make a nice putt on 18 to finish.   
 Q.  When you chipped in on the 4 for eagle, what were you thinking then? Talk us through that shot?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, it was straight back into the wind, so it wasn't -- it was still a pretty difficult shot but when I hit it, it was good. You never know if it's going to go in, but it was nice, especially after I just missed a short one on 3 for par and made bogey. It was a nice little bounce back.   
 Q.  What can you take from this week, a pretty good defence of the Saudi International going forward into tournaments ahead?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the game's in good form. I'm looking forward -- it's only my second event since THE TOUR Championship, so I haven't played much golf. I feel like the game's starting to come around a little bit.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of the hospitality you received this week.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's been great. I enjoyed it last year. Everybody's been more than welcoming, and they have been great. So I look forward to coming back this year, and this year was a lot of the same, if not better. You know, they treat us great over here, and they do a great job with the golf course.   
It was a great event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT