SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 1, 2020
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Let's talk about the start of that round. Straight out of the box with four birdies in a row. Tell us about that from your point of view.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well the first two holes I hit it in the leather pretty much, 3-footers. But I made a nice, I hit a really nice shot on 3 and then made a nice 15-footer there. And then 4 got a little out of position off the tee but was able to get back in and I made a nice putt, I made a probably 25-footer there on 4. But, yeah, I got off to a really good start, had a really good look on 7 that just burned the edge and a few other putts here and there, but I just didn't hit it in the fairway enough. And obviously these crosswinds and it was blowing pretty hard this afternoon, so it was tough to get it in the fairway, but need to do a little better job of that tomorrow so I can attack the golf course a little better.   
 Q.  Is that the biggest challenge you faced out there today, the crosswinds?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, the fairways are narrow, but then you get cross winds it makes it a little tougher to hit the fairways. Yeah, for me I just got to drive it in the fairway and then you can be aggressive out here.   
 Q.  A little bit of ground to make up on two proven winners that are up there at the top of the leaderboard at the moment. You're not here to finish 5th and pick up a nice check, you're here to win. How do you approach it tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm going to have to go out and get off to another start like I did today and then finish it off a little better.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on a second consecutive 68 to leave you at 7-under par.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I played a little better than that. Again, just -- yesterday I didn't get off to a great start, played the back nine pretty well. And then today I got off to a really good start and then didn't play so good on the back with bogeying 11, 13 and 14, just got out of position off the tee, hit some good putts that just didn't go in. But it was another good day, could have been a lot better, kind of like the first three rounds, all of them, they're pretty good rounds. And I'm still right there in contention, but it's the difference between being in contention and leading, I just didn't score great.   
 Q.  Talk us through those open four holes. What was going through your mind when you got so close to the lead?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I got off to a good start. Hit some really good shots on 1, 2 and 3 and then made a nice putt on 4. So, yeah, got off to a really good start, it could have been, shoulda, coulda, woulda but it was looking like it was going to be a really good day, but the wind picked up this afternoon and it played very difficult. So still a couple under par is not bad, but it should have been a lot better.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of the conditions you touched on there and how they changed from when you teed off throughout the round.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, well we when we teed off it was blowing but it was manageable. This afternoon it picked up quite a bit and it was blowing hard enough to where you were playing wind on your putts, which obviously that makes it quite difficult to make them.   
 Q.  Currently four off the lead, how do you approach tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean especially if the wind's blowing, just go out and need to get off to another good start and just finish a little better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT