THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 9, 2019
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is it about Liberty National?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, it's playing a lot different right now than it did in The Presidents Cup, but I like any golf course -- this week the first two days, I drove it really well; any golf course I like.  This golf course, you've got a great back drop all day looking at the City.  This course suits my eye and I've always liked it since the first time I played it.
You've still got to hit the shots and right now I feel like I'm swinging it really well.  I've got a lot of control with the golf ball and hitting a lot of really nice shots and rolled in a couple putts today which is nice, but still feel like I left quite a few out there.
I'm in a good position heading into the weekend, and you know, if I can keep swinging the way I am, I think it's going to be a good weekend.
Q. How close are you to the level you were when you were No. 1 in the world?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It's getting there.  I felt like my golf swing is closer to where it was back then, right now.
Q. In 2017?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, than it has.  I've got a lot of good feels, and you know, I felt like today was a lot like it was yesterday, and that's kind of when I was playing really well, was very consistent.  I was hitting the same kind of shots, feeling the same every day, and that's when I played really well.
So the last two days have been very consistent, which is probably the only two rounds that I felt like have been the same like this whole year besides make México where I played well all four rounds there.  Yeah, I've got a lot of confidence in the swing.
Q. The word of the day was patience on our broadcast.  You hit it so good, stuck with it and hit your lines and finally got something out of it on the last hole.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, all day today was solid.  I felt like I gave myself a lot of chances and very makeable putts all day.  Felt like I was rolling it good, too.  I was burning the edges all day, but hitting my putts with good speed.  I did stay patient and I knew I was hitting it good, so I was going to keep giving myself chances.  It was definitely to get that last one on 18.
Q. Did the 19-footer on 15 give you a little jump in your step to get the lid off, so to speak?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, a little bit.  Then felt like I made the one on 16 and 17, and neither one of them went in, but 18 did.
Q. How much confidence do you have on this course?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, we played Presidents Cup here.  I like the golf course.  It sets up well for me.  You know, if you're hitting it well, every golf course sets up well for you.  I feel like right now, the last two days, I drove it well, and I've hit a lot of really good iron shots, and gave myself a lot of looks at birdie.  If I can keep doing that the next two days, I think I'll be pretty tough.
Q. I know you said you're hitting good putts, but is there frustration that you fight through it and you're not rolling it in enough?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, a little bit, because I feel like I'm seeing the lines good.  I'm hitting the putts right where I want to.  Just the ball is not going in the hole.  There's not anything I can really do about that.  There's so many putts that look like they are going to turn into the hole that maybe stay high or a putt that looked like it was going to turn and I felt like it was in the middle and it would break and hit the low side left.  I don't know; felt like that the last two days.
Q. Are you more happy with the idea that you're giving yourself a ton of chances to outweigh whatever irration you are to have missed 13 putts inside 11 feet, five inches?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Thanks for that.  I know; I was hitting the ball.  I just didn't know it was that many.  I felt like it was around ten.
Q. I made it up.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was at least ten.  Yeah, I'm definitely pleased with the way I'm hitting it, so that outweighs anything else that's going on.  I feel like I'm rolling the putter good.  That's another positive.  I'm not hitting bad putts.  I'm hitting where I want to, and that's all you can do.
Q. There was a time you used to travel with two putters?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I always have at least two.
Q. Do you still have two with you just in case?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, but not the same.
Q. Different models?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm going to use this one hopefully for the rest of the year, unless something happens.
Q. Like tomorrow?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, no.  I'm rolling it good.  I feel like I'm stroking it well right now.  I worked on the stroke a lot the last couple weeks and feels good and I have confidence in it.  Just keep making putts.
Q. Have you played with Jordan outside of Pebble?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I've played with Jordan quite a bit.
Q. Do you enjoy it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I do.
Q. Would you be playing this course any differently if it wasn't so soft?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Not really.  There's a few holes where instead of a driver, you might hit a 3-wood just because the run-outs, but other than that, you're still trying to hit it to, there's kind of an area where you're trying to hit it to.
Q. There's a lot of people who were talking about points and position and it's FedExCup time of the year.  Do you think about that at all, or does this feel to you like any other tournament?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No, I just want to give myself a chance to win on Sunday.  Don't care what position I am in the FedEx.  I want to win a golf tournament.
Q. What would a win mean to you when you still don't get your lifetime exemption?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I like winning, so it means a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT