THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 8, 2019
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. One off the lead, shot a 63 and went and practiced.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I've been working pretty hard on my game the last month or so.  Finally felt like it's coming around.  Obviously today was a really good score, but just want to make sure I keep it that way.
Yeah, just went and hit a few balls just to keep working on the same things that I've been working on.
Q. You won this event twice.  Different courses, obviously.  Is there something about this first event of the Playoffs -- you said you took some time off to get things dialed in; you're just ready to go?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, every Playoff event is big, but you really want to get off to a good start in any of them.  They are all big events.  Yeah, it's a golf course I like.  We played here in The Presidents Cup a couple years ago and I've played a couple other events here.  I really like the golf course.  I think it sets up well for me, and with the conditions, you've got to hit really good shots if you want to get it close to the hole.  But with the soft conditions, you can be kind of aggressive.
Today I swung it really well and gave myself a lot of opportunities.
Q. What's the secret to that round of golf?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I did kind of everything well.  Any time you shoot 8-under, no matter what golf course, you know you did everything well.  Today I drove it well and hit a lot of really good iron shots.  Rolled the putter nicely.
Q. How nice is it to be staying in a place like this and being this close to the City?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, it's always special coming here.  We've been here a few times.  I was here for the Presidents Cup a couple years ago.  It's a fun venue to play.  Obviously looking at the City nice, and we're staying over in the City, so it's a really good week.
Q. When you get to this part of the year and a condensed major championship schedule, how much does your athletic prowess come into it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Every year, the last few years -- this year's probably been the easiest compared to I think the last five or six years because I was playing -- with Presidents Cup and Ryder Cup, I'd be playing, I think nine really big tournaments in 11 weeks.  So it was a lot tougher I feel like than now.
Now I've had a week off last week, which I've always had that week off, but playing The Open Championship and Memphis, so it's only two weeks, week off and three weeks, it's not too bad.  It's a grind because for me, it's five really big tournaments in six weeks.
Q. With the new format of the FedExCup Playoffs, do you like it?  What do you make of it?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I like it.  It will be interesting this year.  I feel like every other sport, when you make it to the Playoffs or the end, everyone has a chance.  But you know, the last, let's see, it's 13th year I think of the FedExCup -- I mean, pretty much 15 to 30 never had a chance to win going into Atlanta.  You had to be pretty much in the Top-10.
Yeah, there's some exceptions, but most of the time you needed to be at least in the Top-10 if you wanted to win, where now, even the 30th spot has a chance to win.  I think it's cool.  I think it makes for an exciting week, and as long as you make it to THE TOUR Championship, you've got a shot.
Yet, if you're starting at even par, it's going to be harder, but you have a chance.  That's the big part.
Q. So you're saying there's a chance.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: There's always a chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT