PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2019
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like I played well today.  Just made too many bogeys.  It wasn't one thing or the other.  Wind got me a couple times.  You know, hit some drives that I thought should have ended up better than they did.   
Yeah, I mean, it was -- seemed like every -- every time I got just a little bit out of position, I made bogey.  Missed quite a few short birdie putts.  Missed a couple short par putts.  But it was -- overall, I felt like I swung the golf club very well.  I drove it well.  I putted well.  I missed a few short ones.  Felt Rickie I rolled it well and where I wanted to, just a couple short ones that I missed.   
 Q.  What is it going to take tomorrow?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I'm going to need some help from him, and then I'm going to have to play very, very well.   
 Q.  How were conditions?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The wind was tricky all day.  It blew from every direction you can think of throughout the round.  It wasn't like it was just a little breeze.  It was blowing pretty hard and it definitely picked up in the last how are we were playing.   
 Q.  Can you change your approach --  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: There's really nothing you can do on this golf course to change your approach.  Drive it in the fairway -- if I drive it in the fairway, I feel like there's no hole I can't attack because if I'm driving it in the fairway and coming out of the fairway, you can control the golf ball.  The greens are fairly receptive.  Every time I was in the fairway, I hit a shot that, you know, I gave myself a really good look at birdie.   
I got a lot of confidence in the irons and I'm driving it well, too.  I just need to limit those misses.   
 Q.  If you look at statistically, it's playing a little bit more than a shot harder than it has the rest of the week.  Is it the wind or something else?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I think it was a little bit of everything.  Flag locations.  Wind, I mean, yeah, it was -- I mean, I thought it was playing difficult.  I just -- you know, I bogeyed.  I made some bad bogeys.  You can't miss a fairway on 2, bogey that hole.  I missed a short putt on 10.  But coulda, shoulda, woulda, go out and do it tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT