THE SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SOFTBANK INVESTMENT ADVISERS
February 6, 2021
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  STEVE TODD:   Been a long day for you, but give us your reflections, finishing the way you did there.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It was a good finish.  Felt like I played really well all day, other than 13, but I didn't think I hit that bad a shot.  I pushed it a hair right of the flag but just came up well short of where I thought it would and ended up making 6 there.
 But other that than that, I drove it well and hit a lot of really good iron shots in there to give myself a lot of good chances at birdie.  Didn't hole a whole lot of putts.  But finishing nicely definitely helped the day out.
 STEVE TODD:   We've spoken to a few guys today who have been a little bit frustrated.  We spoke this morning, you and I, and you were saying how much you like it around here and how you've played so well and you've given yourself another excellent opportunity this week.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, absolutely.  I like the golf course.  I think it sets up good for me.  I've liked it since the first time I came here a couple years ago.  I feel like I'm swinging it well and giving myself all the chances tomorrow.  Just need to hole a few putts.
 Q. I was doing something with Sirius XM the other day and they said, at the end of the year, do you think Dustin Johnson is going to be world No. 1.  Do you feel like in your mind there is nothing that's stopping you from continuing to be on this pace that you're on?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   As of right now, I feel like I'm playing very solid.  I'm seeing a lot of the same things each and every week with my game.  I'm pleased with where it's at and where it going.  As long as I can keep this up, I think I'll be there at the end of the year.
 Q. I wanted to get a couple of your distances and your clubs that you hit on the fourth.  What actually hit on that second shot and what were you hitting?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I was hitting a 3-iron.  It didn't go very far.
 No, a camera click got me.
 Q. And then on 13, what was the distance on the club that you hit?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I had 154, and I hit an 8-iron it went about 125.  I don't know what happened.  I hit it pretty good, too.
 Q. And the last one, 18, what was the distance to the pin there?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   166 front and I think.  So right around 190 hole I think and hit 9-iron.
 Q. Have you ever got frustrated in the last three, four years?  What has really changed?  Something seems to affect you.  Is that a conscious thing or is that just Dustin Johnson?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   A little bit of both.  I get frustrated out there.  I was a little frustrated today.  You know, I just try not to let it linger too long.  I know I'm doing things right, but sometimes it just doesn't go newer way.
 But I still played a really solid round and real happy with the way I'm playing.  A little frustrated maybe with the shot on 13.  But other than that, very pleased with how I played.
 Q. Do you do anything to keep yourself on an even keel?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No.  It's just me.
 Q. You said on Thursday, because I didn't talk to you after yesterday's round, you said the putts you were missing mostly on the high side.  Is that the same situation you're having now or do you know?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I feel like I'm trying to read them as good as I can.  I'm hitting good putts where I'm looking.  Just having a tough time reading them.  I don't think I'm the only one.  I think everybody is having a tough time reading them.
 But the greens, they are rolling good.  They are in good condition.  They are just really tricky.
 Q. Off 18 tee, did you think that ball might have gotten wet?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   No, I didn't think it was wet.  I didn't know if it was going to cover the bunker because I hit it off the top.
 Q. I'm sure you're not short on confidence at the most but what would it do for your confidence to win possibly tomorrow, so early in the season?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   It's always good to win no matter when it is.  But yeah, it definitely would give me a lot of confidence.  It's a really good field.  I'd definitely be very pleased.  It's a pretty big golf tournament, and it will definitely give me a lot of confidence for the rest of the year.
 Q. When you look back two years, and I know you've won a Masters since then, but when you look back two years after the three rounds, do you think you're playing better this time around or you're playing a little bit better two years ago with one round to play?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   I would say the game is in better form right now than two years ago but I think I holed a lot more putts two years ago than I did this year so far, but there's always tomorrow.
 Q. It was a real family affair with you and your brother and young Jack with Stevie Gallacher.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   Yeah, it was nice.  Obviously I just met his son, but yeah, it was pretty cool to see his son caddying for him.
 Q. Can I have your thoughts on the 13th, which actually plays as a par 5 on this golf course, but plays as a par 4 for the tournament; do you think it's a fair par 5 or unfair par 4?  What are your thoughts on it?
 DUSTIN JOHNSON:   We've always played it as a 4.  It's a tough hole.  It's a tough par 4.  But we've always played it like that, so, you know, it doesn't really matter what the par is.  It's a golf hole and you try to get it in as quick as you can.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT