WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It felt good.  I felt like I played solid.  I never gave him a hole, which is a big thing in match play.  And had a lot of good looks at birdies.  Hit some really good putts, that I couldn't believe didn't go in the hole.  I mean it was still a good match.  It was pretty close for most of the day.  And obviously got fortunate and made a nice up-and-down there on the last hole to win the match.   
 Q.  What is it about this place?  You play well here, you won here.  A lot of guys call it a tricky, quirky golf course, but you seem to handle it very nicely.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I feel like it's a good golf course.  You've got to be really precise with your iron shots.  Generally it's windy, and so tough conditions.  I tend to like it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I like the golf course.  It sets up well for me.  I feel like I've got a pretty good game plan.  It plays tough.  The greens are slopey and firm.  So you've got to hit the fairways.  You've got to hit quality golf shots if you want to get close to the hole.   
 Q.  How much do you relish playing this format once a year?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It gives us something different.  We don't play too much match play.  So it's definitely a nice change.  And it's a lot of fun to play this event.   
 Q.  Comfortable win.  What are your thoughts on today's round?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well, I'm pleased with my play.  I felt like I played pretty well.  I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Didn't give him any holes.  Just played really solid.  Hit some really good putts that didn't go in the hole.   
And so I feel like I'm stroking it well, I'm hitting it down the line and I'm reading the greens pretty good, too.  Yeah, I feel really good for the rest of the week.  But every match is going to be different.  Every match is going to be tough.  And still have a long way to go.   
 Q.  There's always a moment in the round when you feel like it's yours to win, when was that?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: On this hole.  On the last hole, when I had a putt to win.  I mean, obviously being up you always feel like you are in control, but it's match play.  5-up with 5 to go, and had to win on the last hole.   
 Q.  What's your assessment of the match out there today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, we had a pretty good match.  For me it was -- I didn't give him any holes, I mean it's a big thing in match play.  But I felt like I just played solid.  I never really was really out of position.  Always felt like I had a look at it.  I felt like I played really well, just hit some really nice putts that didn't go in the hole.  But I felt like the conditions were tough.  It wasn't that easy out there this afternoon.   
 Q.  How important is to win this first match here on Wednesday?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, yeah, no matter what tournament you're playing, whether it's match play, stroke play, it's always good to get off to a good start.  Yeah, I mean especially in the kind of way we play now, where you play three matches.  You definitely want to win that first one.   
 Q.  Is this the kind of format where you can develop momentum from match to match as you get going?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, especially if you're having some success, you can definitely get some momentum.  But it's more about your play, and I feel like I've been playing well.  I've got a lot of confidence in the game right now.  So hopefully I can continue that.   
 Q.  What about this course suits your game?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I just like it.  I feel like it's tough.  You've got to hit it in the fairway.  You've got to hit really good iron shots, if you want to get close to the hole.  For me if I drive it well here I feel like I can play really well.   
 Q.  What made the conditions so tricky this afternoon?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Just the wind.  The wind was blowing pretty good.  And the greens are firm and fast.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT