VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2019
Dustin Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You gave them a show there on the 18th to get it to 8-under.  Take us through that shot from the sand where you hit it a mile high on the approach and then roll in the birdie putt.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I had a good lie in the bunker but it was on up slope and had to get it over the lip so I had to hit it really high.  It was into the wind, up the hill, only had 130 yards I think adjusted hole, which -- and I hit a full 9-iron and just really high up in the air and luckily I made really good contact with it and it flew just past the hole.  And even then I had whatever, seven feet, and still had a big swinging downhill putt, I mean these greens are really fast but a lot of slope on them even sometimes you hit them really close you don't have easy birdie putts.   
 Q.  You haven't played here in quite awhile yet here you find yourself after three rounds in contention.  What is it about the course and the way you've played it so far?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Oh, it's a good golf course.  It's tough tee to green and you know if you shoot a couple under par each day, come Saturday, Sunday, you're going to be right in the mix.  Yeah, I mean you just got to hit a lot of good shots, you got to hit all the clubs in your bag, too, so the golf course plays tough, which I like and it's going to be a good day tomorrow.   
 Q.  What pleased you the most today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The birdie at the last.  That was a tough shot and hit a great shot and then made a, had a tough putt too.  Today it was a good day, I felt like I hit it well, couple loose shots but around here you're going to hit a couple.  But other than that I gave myself -- I hit my irons really well, controlled distance good, I gave myself a lot of opportunities, hit a lot of really good shots and even hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.  But the greens are tough, slopey, they're fast.  Yeah, I mean it was pretty solid day overall.   
 Q.  How important was the birdie on 14 to maintaining that momentum?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean all the birdies are good, but that was nice to roll in that putt from 25 feet or however far it was.  Especially right after I had -- I mean I hit a great shot on 13 and I hit the putt exactly where I wanted to, roll it just barely trickling and hit the high side of the hole and it didn't go in.  I didn't think it could miss, but.  I mean it's always nice to roll in a long one right after that.   
 Q.  What were you trying to do with your second shot on 14?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Knock it on the green.  I had a good lie, I hit it right in the middle of the face.  I mean even out of the rough I thought it would come out a little flat and go a little bit.  It came out, yeah, right in the center and it came out spinny and it hit the tree.  I mean it happens.  But I knew that was a risk, but I was willing to a take it, after yesterday I laid up right in the middle of the fairway in a big divot -- well it's a lot bigger after I hit out of it yesterday.   
 Q.  Is your game where you want it to be right now heading into the season?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It is.  Yeah, I'm comfortable with every club in my bag and, yeah, I mean it's in pretty good form right now.  It can always get better, but it's in good form.   
 Q.  You said the other day you're a lot different player than when you were here in 2008 and 2010.  What's the biggest difference?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Well most days I know where my golf ball's going.  Back then I didn't.  But, yeah, I mean I don't know, I played a draw too, I don't know, I mean it's been a long time since then, I can't really remember.   
 Q.  Confidence-wise?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean a lot of it is confidence, but probably a little bit of everything.  Playing the golf course probably my strategy's a little bit better now than it probably was back then.   
 Q.  Do you think this course suits you or are you just playing good enough that any course would?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean it's the first time coming here in a long time but, yeah, I think it suits my game.  I like it.  It's tough, you got to hit really good shots if you want to get it close to the hole and, yeah, I like the golf course, I think it sets up well for me.   
 Q.  Does it matter to you to be in the last group?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: No.  As long as I'm within a few of the lead I'm okay.   
 Q.  What's the balance for you tomorrow in terms of trying to be aggressive potentially chasing down Paul versus taking what the course will give you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean you can't really -- I mean I feel like I got a good game plan for the golf course, I'm not going to change it, just try to go out and play my game and see how low I can shoot, which is what I do every day, I'm not going to do anything different.   
 Q.  You're the fourth No. 1 to play in this tournament, being No. 1 at the time.  Is No. 1 to you just a number or does it represent something to you being No. 1 in the world?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I mean, yeah, I like being No. 1.  It means I'm playing really good golf.  But for me it's, yeah, I mean I want to be there but winning takes care of that too.  So every week I tee it up I come prepared and trying to win the golf tournament or at least just put myself in a position to win, which I've done this week.  How many back I'm going to be, I don't know, but I'm in a good position, either way, no matter how many shots I am back, because this golf course, it's tough, so if you can go, if I can go out and shoot a good score then I got a chance.   
 Q.  What were the galleries like for you?  How has it been?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The fans have been great.  I got a lot of fans out there and they have been very supportive, so it's been a lot of fun this week so far.  Hopefully we're going to have a lot of fun tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT