AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 18, 2020
Kylie Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. Back off a big week last week at the Ladies Scottish Open.  How good does it feel to be here.
 KYLIE HENRY:   Yeah, great.  It's a privilege to be playing a major at Royal Troon, and for me personally, so close to home and it does feel like a home event, even though I know we're doing it under sort of COVID restrictions, it's just so nice, nice to be here and be somewhere so familiar.
 Q. You've got your brother on the bag, so some sort of familiar face in your team.  Is it a shame to not have the rest of your family here watching?
 KYLIE HENRY:   It is a shame, but I'm so grateful that Chris gives me so much of his time to come and caddie for me, and we've got it sussed.  We're a really good team on the course.
 It is a shame that my family can't be here but they are here -- they come to every event they possibly can, and every time we play in Scotland or even the U.K., so they understand, and I do, too.  It's just the way it is.  We're just obviously having to follow protocols to make sure these events went ahead, and it's just so amazing they are going ahead.
 Q. Are you doing anything different to prepare for this week because it's a major?
 KYLIE HENRY:   Not at all.  I probably made those mistakes in the past, it's just another event, even though it is the biggest on the schedule for me.  Again, it is just another golf tournament and I think keeping it as simple as possible is the best way to do it for me.
 Q. You mentioned having eight, nine weeks, playing golf in lockdown.  That must have been torture.  Do you have any sort of mad moments where you feel, when is it going to end, anything like that?
 KYLIE HENRY:   It was a difficult time in that respect just knowing how things were going to pan out.  But to be honest, my husband and I were really lucky.  We were delivering shopping to my parents who were caring for my gran at the time, so they were fully isolating, and we were delivering shopping to them, and at the time the weather was really good.
 Scott and I would hit some balls from my parents back garden into the farmer's field behind it.  So we at least had that as a bit of an outlet, and you know, at least that was -- felt like we were still doing some decent practice, and at least hitting balls a couple times a week.
 Q. Did the farmer know?
 KYLIE HENRY:   Yes yeah, he started finding random golf balls and throwing them back over the fence, yeah he was happy for us to do it.  We just made sure that there was no cows that got hit or anything.
 Q. How big is the field roughly and were there anything you were aiming at, pylons?  Cows?
 KYLIE HENRY:   We weren't aiming at cows, but yeah, there's sort of a forestry line, so we could aim at trees and things like that.  We used the fence as a sort of aiming point, as well.  It was good.  It was at least something for us.
 Q. Bit of friendly competition, nearest to this tree?
 KYLIE HENRY:   Yeah, we're always doing things like that, yeah, to keep it fun and interesting.  More often than not, Scott beats me but whenever I beat him, I really rub it in.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT