CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 25, 2016
Johanna Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. LARSSON/R. Vinci   
7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk about the tiebreaker.  She was up quickly 3-0, but you rallied and came back and won.  That seemed to give you the momentum in the second set.  
JOHANNA LARSSON: Yeah, definitely the tiebreak was the key, key point there in the match.   
As you said, she got a good start.  Yeah, it was tough for me out there at Love-3 down, but I was lucky in the end and could make the last point in the tiebreak.   
 Q.  Could you sense her foot was bothering her?  How does that affect the way you approach the match?  
JOHANNA LARSSON: Yeah, I could see like in the mid second set something was wrong.  I didn't know what it was, if she was tired or if it was injury or something.  Could definitely see that her speed was slowing down, a little bit her fighting spirit as well.   
That was for my advantage, of course.  It's never fun to see your opponent getting ill or not playing their best.  But, you know, it's tennis.  Next time it can be me.   
 Q.  What is it about this week that has been clicking for you?  What do you hope to take over to the US Open?  
JOHANNA LARSSON: I think I played very solid.  Haven't really given so much easy mistakes to my opponents, so they always had to play good tennis to win their points.   
It's tough to play very good tennis during a whole match.  Sometimes you have to give a little bit.  When they have, then I've been there to take those opportunities.   
I think just to be solid in myself, play aggressive on the key moments.   
 Q.  Do you think this is going to help you next week?  Confidence-wise are you at a different level right now?  
JOHANNA LARSSON: Definitely it's always helping to play many matches and to play good tennis.  It's bringing yourself to a little bit more calm situation.  You know when you go out there on court, you're going to be a tough cookie to beat.   
That's always good to have before a Grand Slam.   
 Q.  Are you thinking now at this stage that you have a real opportunity in the semifinals?  Your next opponent won't be one of the top eight seeds.  Maybe I can win this thing?  
JOHANNA LARSSON: I mean, I think I play Svitolina or Vesnina.  Svitolina is No. 10 in the world or something like this.  That's going to be very difficult.  Vesnina has been playing very good tennis lately.  She was in semis in Wimbledon.  She's a very good player.  So either one of those is going to be very, very tricky.   
Yeah, I'm just going to go out there and do my thing and hopefully can keep going and I can score another win.  But we will see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT