HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 25, 2012
Katie Futcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE SCANLAN:   We welcome Katie Futcher, co‑leader after three rounds of the HSBC Women's Champions.   Just talk about your day and how you feel after that finish. 
KATIE FUTCHER:   Yeah, I actually 3‑putted 17 yesterday, so it was a bogey, so it's my second bogey of the tournament, but still, I'm very pleased with the consistency of the way I've been playing.   Hitting greens, hitting fairways, and making some putts.   So I feel very good going into tomorrow. 

Q.   (Inaudible.). 
KATIE FUTCHER:   Yes, the shot into the bunker, I was like, why in the world would you leave yourself there of all places.   And I was looking at the bunker shot and I'm like, this is going to be pretty tricky and of course left it.   I knew that that chip shot I could make.   So I was actually really intent on making it, and it went in.   So it was pretty clutch at the time.   So it was good. 

Q.   At the last, your right hand came off the top, were you thinking at all‑‑
KATIE FUTCHER:   I'm sorry, on which hole? 

Q.   The last hole. 
KATIE FUTCHER:   On the drive? 

Q.   Yes, were you‑‑
KATIE FUTCHER:   No visual line to the hole.   I couldn't hook it enough to get it to the hole, no.   I had to straightaway pop it out.   So that's what I did. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   Can you just talk about going into tomorrow as a co‑leader and trying to win your first event? 
KATIE FUTCHER:   Well, yeah, I've never been in this position before.   I'm definitely going to experience all of the feelings and all of the emotions, but just try to continue to do the things that have got me to this point today. 
So I'm just going to be consistent and try to be as consistent as I can off the tee, hitting the greens.   Not really change my game plan, just be patient with myself and play steady. 

Q.   What do you think‑‑
KATIE FUTCHER:   I would have to say myself I would think.   Like I said, I've never been in this position that I've been in. 
So just experiencing what I'm going to experience tomorrow and hopefully Mike can keep me nice and loose.   If I play my game, I know I can win and I know that I can be right there.   Angela is playing steady.   Jenny played very well today, so we are just going to go out and see how it goes tomorrow.   But I feel that I'm my biggest competitor at the moment. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   You said you were trying to get Stanford to smiletoday. 
KATIE FUTCHER:   I thought she did really well today.   We had fun and talking it up with her caddie, as well, good fun.   So we had a good time, yeah. 

Q.   Since the first round‑‑ inaudible ‑‑ are you comfortable with it? 
KATIE FUTCHER:   No, I'm very surprised with how I'm‑‑ I felt very, very confident the whole day.   I didn't get ahead of myself.   The tee shot on the last shot was just a bad swing.   It wasn't anything but that.   But no, I feel‑‑ I was surprised at how I felt; that I didn't feel any different.   So that's a good sign to me. 
So it's getting further and further into the tournament, so that's good, so we'll see how tomorrow is and you know, go with that.     Yeah, I was surprised that I felt quite comfortable in that position. 

Q.   Something quite nice about going into the last round with the same company that you had today, the same people?
KATIE FUTCHER:   Yeah, definitely, Angela is one of my good friends, so I'm very much looking forward to tomorrow. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   Katie, thanks for coming in, appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT