HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 24, 2012
Katie Futcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE SCANLAN:   We would like to welcome Katie Futcher to the interview room.   Right now you're co‑leader after two rounds of the HSBC Women's Champions with one more group left opponent the course with Angela Stanford also at 8‑under.   If you would, take us through your day, you shot a 67, really nice round on a really hot day.   You've got to be satisfied. 
KATIE FUTCHER:   Yeah, I'm very, very satisfied.   Went out, made a great putt on No. 1 today for par, and that kind of really just got me settled and I was able after that to hit it pretty close and make a couple of putts. 
But yeah, that par on No. 1 got me into the round, so that was a good start.   But turned at 4 and got it to 6 and had a little mishap on 17, but made a good putt on 18.
MIKE SCANLAN:   Last year, 2011, you had a really good season, career‑best money and two Top 10s and a career best finish T‑3 at the Kraft Nabisco, so things were going pretty well, and then you came this year and had a Top‑10 in Australia.   Are you feeling good about your game overall? 
KATIE FUTCHER:   Yes, definitely feeling good.   I work really hard, so at this point I know I'm 30, so I'm kind of a little late starter than most people.   
             But yeah, I feel like I'm doing the right things, and I'm just going to continue to do the right things, and just stay patient with myself.   So, yeah, definitely looking to build off last year for sure. 

Q.   A late starter; did you actually not take up golf until 14, 13? 
KATIE FUTCHER:   14, yeah. 

Q.   You were a competitive swimmer before?
KATIE FUTCHER:   I was a very competitive swimmer, yes.   I was very good‑‑ I was a really good swimmer.   I don't know how else to say it. 

Q.   But who did you play for‑‑ not play for, who did you swim for?
KATIE FUTCHER:   I played for the Woodlands Athletic Center, one of the best swim clubs at the time in the country.   We actually moved to Houston for the swim team because that's what I was planning on doing, I guess.   But I didn't really like swimming, so I quit. 

Q.   Can you say why you didn't like it? 
KATIE FUTCHER:   I was pushed very hard by my father, and looking back, I know that he was trying to do the best thing for me, but I just grew to hate it.   And I learned a lot of things from swimming; discipline and work ethic, but it just wasn't something that I loved anymore. 

Q.   Inaudible.
KATIE FUTCHER:   No, what he learned from swimming, he learned not to do that with golf and he learned with my sister not to push her into athletics, as well.   He was one and done with the pushing, so that was good.

Q.   What events were you‑‑
KATIE FUTCHER:   I was good at every race.   My best event was the100 im, but at that age, you're not swimming more than a hundred of each stroke, so at that stage it was 200 IM and I was good at the 100 back.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KATIE FUTCHER:   The first hole, the putt for par was probably six or seven feet.   And the 18th, 30 feet, 35 feet, something like that. 
The 18th was a good one to make.   You would see steam out of the ears if I wouldn't have made that one. 

Q.   Did you think there was a 67 out there for you on this golf course, and what do you think about this golf course and does it perhaps suit your game? 
KATIE FUTCHER:   Yeah, yesterday when I shot 3‑under, we were walking off the 18th and Mike said, that's the worst you're going to shoot; that's the worst you're going to play today.   I've just been hitting the ball really solidly, hitting greens and giving myself a lot of chances. 
Yeah, I think there's 65s, 66s out there.   You just have to play smart, and we have been hitting the ball in the right spots on the greens and just paying attention to the grain.   So we have just been giving ourselves chances and it's been good. 

Q.   The leaderboard is you, Jenny and Angela at 8‑under, three shots clear.   Are you surprised?   All of the talk this week has been about other players like Yani and Na Yeon Choi and maybe Suzann, as well, and they have struggled on the course; are surprised at the position you guys are in? 
KATIE FUTCHER:   Definitely 8‑under for two days is good.   From my point of view, from my game, I've been putting very well.   I think I've made one bogey in 36 holes, and so that's kind of been my goal coming in is just bogey‑free rounds, playing smart, giving myself chances, hitting greens. 
So I'm not‑‑ I don't know about the other players games, but I know that‑‑ I know my short game is very sharp and my putting very good, so I have extreme confidence in that right now. 
So, yeah, just looking forward to the weekend.   Angela is one of my best friends out here, so it will be nice to play with her.   I don't know, are we playing twos or threes?   We don't know, but anybody I play with, it will be nice. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   Can you just talk about Angela's game?   Obviously you're close with her.   What kind of things do you see with her as far as her play and also her name at the top of the leaderboard.
KATIE FUTCHER:   Well, Angela is probably the toughest competitor out here.   Her grit and her grind, you're not going to find anybody that's going to grind it out harder than Angela. 
So I very much admire that.   I try to learn from that.   At the same time, I give her a hard time for not talking a whole lot and not smiling.   But, no, she's just a phenomenal competitor and that's just‑‑ that's what I take from Angela is she's out there to kick everybody's butt.   And of course she's a veteran and a great player.   She's been in this position and knows what to do. So, it will be good. 

Q.   You mentioned Angela's a veteran; how important is the fact that you and Jenny have not won? 
KATIE FUTCHER:   Well, I mean, definitely experience is key, and she's been in that position.   But the only way that I'm going to learn how to win is to put myself in that position, as well.   So I'm just going to continue to do that and put myself in position, and I'm going to learn my way through it and eventually, I'm going to win, as well. 
So it's just a matter of having that experience, putting yourself in that position, and I'm just going to‑‑ like I said earlier, continue to do the things that I've been doing the first two days and not really change my game plan; but just, you know, kind of feel what's going on out there and just take everything in and see what happens. 
MIKE SCANLAN:   Thanks so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT