LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
July 18, 2008
Katie Futcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Katie, thanks for coming in. Great job out there. Round of the day. Career low for you at 8-under, 64. How do you think you did today? 
 KATIE FUTCHER: Well, yeah, I played really well. It was a great day. My game plan coming in was to try to hit all 18 greens, and I think I hit 16 greens today. 
 I achieved what I wanted to do and made some really good putts. Just had fun with my group. I had a really good group today.
 JASON TAYLOR: Can we go over your scorecard.
 KATIE FUTCHER: Uh-huh. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Started on the back nine with a birdie on 12.
 KATIE FUTCHER: Yes, I drained probably like a 30-foot putt. Had 120 to the pin. It was a putt to kind of get me going. I mean, on 11 I hit it to within four feet and missed that putt for birdie. It was just kind of stay patient and the putts will drop. Once I kind of got the ball rolling and made that putt I knew it was going to be okay.
 JASON TAYLOR: You also birdied 13.
 KATIE FUTCHER: Yes. I was just short of the green in two and I did not hit a very good chip, but luckily made probably about a 25-foot putt to make birdie.
 It wasn't the best chip, but I was still able to capitalize.
 JASON TAYLOR: Another birdie of 15. 
 KATIE FUTCHER: A good drive. Just actually hit it a little bit beyond the pin. I was off the green and made the putt from the fringe. It was probably 20 feet. Putting from off the fringe always helps the putting stats, so we welcome those.
 JASON TAYLOR: Birdie on 18.
 KATIE FUTCHER: Yeah, that was just great drive. Hit a 7-iron to ten feet and rolled it in. A little uphill putt. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Going to 1, you birdied there.
 KATIE FUTCHER: Yeah. I almost hit it in. My third shot I almost hit it in. I mean, I had a half-foot putt, just a tap-in for birdie there. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Then did it again on 2.
 KATIE FUTCHER: Yeah. Made a really good putt. Probably 25, 30 feet from behind the hole. 
 JASON TAYLOR: And on 4. 
 KATIE FUTCHER: 4, that was actually a really lucky break. It was going right at the green and got a good bounce and went on the green about 15 feet and made the putt.
 JASON TAYLOR: Finally, birdie on 9.
 KATIE FUTCHER: Yeah. Good drive. Good second shot. I think it was probably about 18 feet maybe straight uphill. Kristy knocked in a bomb. She was all the way back left and she hit it in. She made the hole a little bigger so we all made birdie.

 Q. Looks like you made some long putts today. Are there some days as far as reads or whatever, were you really locked in?
 KATIE FUTCHER: Absolutely. I mean, yesterday was one of those days where I felt like I was hitting great putts and just nothing fell. Today I certainly didn't make everything I looked at, but I made some good putts which kept the momentum going. Yeah, that's always good thing. 

 Q. Just as far as after yesterday's super low scores, you're coming out here in the morning, is your whole mentality birdies early and often? 
 KATIE FUTCHER: No. I mean, yesterday playing with Kristy, it was great to play with her and Alena. We had a great group. A lot of birdies between all of us. It's always good to play in a group where everybody a making birdies. 
 My goal today was just to hit the green and let everything else take care of itself. I hit 16 greens and I'm pretty pleased with the way I'm playing. I keep telling my caddie, Just get the putter in my hand and we'll be okay.

 Q. Has the putting been a strong suit most of the season?
 KATIE FUTCHER: It has. It's definitely been one of the things I wanted it improve this year. I've spent a lot of time this year working on it. And, yeah, it's definitely one of the things I'm doing well this year. 

 Q. Morning rounds, a lot of times you see those really good low scores. The conditions are maybe more favorable. The girls that are going out in the afternoon, just the way the conditions are right now and the way you maybe could envision them later in the afternoon, maybe the greens could get spiked up, would you still be surprised though if maybe a few afternoon groups still come in with something really low?
 KATIE FUTCHER: Oh, yeah, it's definitely out there. There are favorable pins, reachable Par 5s. You got to take advantage of the Par 5s. 
 Of course the greens are going to get a little bit bumpier in the afternoon, but low scores are out there. I would not be surprised if girls played well. 

 Q. What do you have to improve upon in the next couple days to make sure that rounds like this keep coming in?
 KATIE FUTCHER: I think going into today after yesterday -- I got really frustrated with myself at the end the round and I didn't stay patient. I know that my skills are there, so if I can just keep myself being patient and be patient with myself, I think that's all that it'll take. 
 Just really focusing on the shot at hand and just one shot at a time and being patient myself.

 Q. Did you play here last year knowledge?
 KATIE FUTCHER: I did.

 Q. What was the difference between this year and the tournament last year?
 KATIE FUTCHER: I mean, I'm a much better player than I was last year. I don't know. I mean, every day is different. Every year is going to be totally different. 
 I feel that I'm a much better player than I was last year. 

 Q. Is that because you focused on your putting game or just all around?
 KATIE FUTCHER: In general. Everything has gotten -- everything has become much better. I'm starting to trust myself more and working with a sports psychologist at home. Everything is going in the right direction. 

 Q. 64, is that a career low for you?
 KATIE FUTCHER: Correct.

 Q. Prior to this...
 KATIE FUTCHER: 66 maybe. 

 Q. This year or last year?
 KATIE FUTCHER: One 66 my rookie year and one 66 last year, I believe. I'm not really good with all the statistics. 

 Q. At the midway point here, is this one of the better positions you've been in in a while?
 KATIE FUTCHER: Yes. I mean, I think this is definitely the lowest score that I've had going into the weekend. I played well at Corning this year and was in a similar situation going into the weekend. 
 But overall, yeah, probably the best I've played in a while. Yeah, absolutely. Uh-huh. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT