WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 24, 2006
Katie Futcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Katie, thanks for coming in.  We appreciate your time.  A great round out there today.  You eagled your final hole to get to 6 under and grab a share of the lead.  The first round is almost over.  Tell us about your day and then we'll take some questions.
KATIE FUTCHER:  I had a great day.  I think I hit 13 fairways.  I hit 15 greens.  I putted very well today, made a couple of key putts.  I managed myself well around the golf course today, so that's what really helps me.

This course, the approach shots I think are pretty critical, to hit it in the right spot on the green.  And I managed myself pretty well around those shots.  So I'm pleased with the way I played today.
Q.  Talk about how exciting it is to be tied for first.  We have to wait and see what happens in the last few, but how exciting is it to be tied for first in this tournament?
KATIE FUTCHER:  It's exciting.  There's a lot of golf left.  It's very special because my family is here.  They live in London, England, so they don't get a chance to watch me play very much.  This is the first time my dad has seen me play since The Open last year.  It's special with them being here.  It's really nice.  My mom watched me in Kingsmill and in Vanderbilt, so this is her third time.

It's great.  I'm in a new position, so it's good.  I'm excited to learn about the feelings that I'm going to feel tomorrow and all those things.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KATIE FUTCHER: Yes, I did.
Q.  Is this your first eagle?
KATIE FUTCHER:  No, I think this is my third eagle.  I had one last week in Portland, I know that.  And I don't remember when my first one was.

I had a 6 footer on No. 4, the par 5, for eagle, too, that I lipped out.  I should have had two.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KATIE FUTCHER:  I did.
Q.  Did your parents move after you left?
KATIE FUTCHER:  My dad works for a construction company called Bechtel.  I was born in Houston.  We moved overseas and then we came back.  And then I moved to Tennessee.  I came back when I was 10 and I've lived there ever since.  My parents have been overseas for two years now.  We've lived in Houston for 15 years now.
Q.  What part of your game was best today?
KATIE FUTCHER:  I would have to say my putting.  My putting was very solid.  I've been practicing my putting pretty hard for the last two weeks.  I met my caddie    my caddie that's caddying for me this week I met at the Canadian Open.  And he just said you need to work on three footers and six footers and nine footers.  So I do this drill, and I do not leave until I complete the drill.  And I've been doing it every day since the first day I met him at the Canadian Open.  So it gives me a lot of confidence in that circle, and even beyond, really, because my putts start looking shorter, which is a good thing.  I do it every day, and that's what I'm about to go do out there, even now.
Q.  What do you have to do before you will let yourself leave?
KATIE FUTCHER:  I put six tees around the hole, six at three feet, and then I make four rounds of those, so 24.  And then I have to make eight six footers in a row.  And then I have to make three nine footers in a row.  So I just keep moving my putter back after completing the length.
Q.  Have you been in the lead yet this year?
KATIE FUTCHER: No, I have not.  First time.
Q.  Are you interested in how you might react to this?
KATIE FUTCHER:  Yes, of course.  Being in this position, it's new.  It's going to be new feelings tomorrow.  I'm interested to see how I feel and how I react.  And hopefully I can just stay in the present and be calm.  I'm looking forward to it.  Any time you are in a new situation it's a learning experience.  It's only going to help you when you are in that position later on.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Katie, if you could take us over your score cord.  We can start anywhere you want to.  If you want to start with 16, because that was your first birdie, or if you want to start with No. 1, it's up to you.
KATIE FUTCHER:  I'll start on No. 10.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdies and eagles.
KATIE FUTCHER:   Great.
PAUL ROVNAK:  On 16, what did you hit in there?
KATIE FUTCHER:   I had about 145 to the hole, into the wind.  I hit a 7 iron and I hit it to about six feet and made the putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You birdied No. 1.
KATIE FUTCHER:  I had 119 to the hole and I hit it to about three feet, made that putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do you remember what you hit?
KATIE FUTCHER:  A pitching wedge.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 3.
KATIE FUTCHER:  I had a wedge from 110.  That putt was a little bit longer.  That was, I would say, 15 feet or so.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 4, the par 5.
KATIE FUTCHER:  I hit a 7 wood from 225 out to six feet for eagle and then I tapped in for birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Eagle on 9.
KATIE FUTCHER:  I had 177 to the hole and I hit a 5 iron to nine feet, made the putt.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KATIE FUTCHER:  Not really because I put a good stroke on it.  I just read a little too much break.  No, you can't do anything when you stroke a putt well.  I was okay with it.  I knew I had a couple of holes left to play anyway, so I had to stay with it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT