NCAA WOMEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS
May 26, 2015
Jay Goble
Lauren Kim
Lauren Whyte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RICK NIXON:   We are now joined by Baylor head coach Jay Goble, student‑athletes Lauren Whyte and Dylan Kim.   Jay, just a quick statement and then we'll take questions from the audience. 
JAY GOBLE:   Well, my feelings are this is a dream come true for everybody here at this table.   This is why we put in hard work every day, and this is, again, hard work is paying off for us this week.   It's a lot of dreams realized for everybody here at this table.
RICK NIXON:   Dylan, a long day for you.   You were just talking about how long it was.   Talk about having to play through the quarterfinal and semifinals match today to advance to the national championship. 
DYLAN KIM:   It's great.   I'm very pleased with the way I played today.   I think we had two very tough matches and we got pulled off the course but we were all square standing on 16, our 16th fairway, and Leona and I took it all the way to 18.   I had to hole a two‑and‑a‑half footer on the last.   I was shaking a bit, but it was a long day, and it feels amazing to get to the final because it's something we've been talking about and dreaming about all semester, but to actually, actually be here is incredible. 
RICK NIXON:   Lauren, for you, I know you just experienced an epic match.   Your thoughts now, reflect upon it and what it means for you and the team. 
LAUREN WHYTE:   Yeah, it was a very special experience.   I was very lucky to have the whole team out there supporting and I was very lucky to have Jay on the bag as well to calm the nerves a little bit.   It was a long day.   There was a lot of adrenaline at the end there but I think it's sunk in this has happened and everybody is ready to go for tomorrow and really excited about what can happen. 

Q.   Coach, you talk about everything to this point is a dream come true, but there's still another dream ahead of you, so how do you kind of calm it and not get ahead of yourself and just do what you have to do? 
JAY GOBLE:   You know, we've had a very simple mantra all year is that we control what we can control, and we've come out every single day this semester not focusing on outside things that we can't take care of, and again, we are in the match, we have fought all week long to be in this match, and we're going to go out and play Baylor golf tomorrow, and I know that I feel very confident in the five players I have and the fact that they are going to go out and play their golf game.   If they play their golf game, we're going to be in good shape tomorrow. 

Q.   Lauren, your roommate mentioned that you've allowed yourself about three seconds to be down or disappointed about whatever happened during that day and then you move on and you're positive and you're happy for your team.   Was it difficult for you to keep a positive outlook for the past week at any point? 
LAUREN WHYTE:   No, not at all.   I have a very positive, uplifting team.   If you have a bad day, they're all there.   They have your back, they kind of like bring you higher and there's no point bringing everybody else down if you've had a bad day.   Like everybody has played great this week and it's been amazing that they've been able to put us in this position, and I was just really pleased that I could play my part today, and it was a great feeling knowing that they were all supporting me, so I just wanted to do the same for them. 

Q.   Lauren, what was the most difficult part about all those extra, extra holes, just trying to calm it down, the emotions, knowing that everybody was watching you? 
LAUREN WHYTE:   Having everyone watching me actually kind of like spurred me on.   It was great motivation having everybody there.   I think keeping the emotions under control and keeping the adrenaline kind of like at bay, it was obviously very intense and it was going along for a while, but keeping myself hydrated, making sure I didn't kind of ‑‑ fatigue didn't hit in or anything like that.   No, just staying focused, staying in the moment, playing to each shot. ... 

Q.   Where does this rank for you, Lauren, on your personal list of great moments? 
LAUREN WHYTE:   It was definitely up there.   Doing anything as a team is always so much more special than just doing it individually, so it's been great having the whole team there, especially in the freshman year, kind of experiencing all this with two other freshmen on the team, as well, so I know we're going to cherish this for the next three years at Baylor.   No, this is definitely up there with one of the best moments in golf for me. 

Q.   What's second? 
LAUREN WHYTE:   I've played in the Youth Olympics in Australia in 2013.   Again, that was a team experience, and the second day in 46‑degrees Celsius heat I shot 5‑under, and that was probably one of the special moments for me.   I just love team golf, so anything in a team environment is great. 

Q.   46 Celsius, what's that translate to? 
LAUREN WHYTE:   I have no idea.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT