U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
July 1, 2012
Kate Ziegler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Hi, Kate.   Congratulations.  
KATE ZIEGLER:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   It's been a long road back.   Can you talk about how you feel and sum up the last four years?   
KATE ZIEGLER:   The last four years has been a little bit of a roller coaster ride, but it's been a really good journey.   
I said it before, and I'll say it again, my disappointments have definitely shaped me into the person and the swimmer I am today, and I wouldn't be here swimming like this or enjoying swimming so much, had incident had all the experiences I've had.   
I couldn't be more thankful to have the opportunity to go to the Olympics and I couldn't be anymore proud to represent my country.   
   
 Q.   So it's going to be a whole different feeling for you than it was four years ago?  
KATE ZIEGLER:   Absolutely.   
   
 Q.   You're going to enjoy it this time?   
KATE ZIEGLER:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   What did you guys exchange?   
KATE ZIEGLER:   Good job, exciting, a little bit of screaming.   
   
 Q.   You're pretty young ‑‑ (Away from mic.)  
KATE ZIEGLER:   Thank you for making me feel old now.   I think it's so cool.   I can remember being 15 making my first international team, certainly not the Olympics.   But just the experience that she has ahead of her is so exciting, and I'm excited for her, because I've been there and it's the coolest.   
   
 Q.   Can you offer advice?   You did have a learning experience your first time around.   Can you be a mentor for her, perhaps?   
KATE ZIEGLER:   I would love to.   
I was thinking about this actually this morning, that, like I said, I started out my first international team when I was 16 years old or so, and I looked up to the older swimmers, and now to have that opportunity to give back, if nothing else.  
I would love to be able to leave the sport saying that I helped maybe mentor, shape, whatever, give advice to the future of our sport.   I think that's one of the greatest gifts I could ever give.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT