US OPEN
August 31, 2001
Jack Brasington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Impressions of Roddick?
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  Impressions?  Good serve.  Good forehand.  You know, first two sets I couldn't really settle in.  He was playing well.  It's really tough if you get broken with him; you really definitely need to hold your serve because if you don't, it can go pretty quick.  
 
Q.  You looked to be an entirely different player after the seventh game of the third set.  Did you feel different and what accounted for the difference?
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah, I mean, definitely in the first two sets I just couldn't settle in.  It was just one of those things, like a mental block.  You know, you can't get your rhythm.  Your timing, everything just wasn't there.  I couldn't get like that spark behind me to get me going, that little hop in your step.  I think in the third I got some confidence.  Breaking him and winning the third, I think that helped me a lot.  I don't know.  There were some times when I did get tired.  I thought I was going to be more fresh out there, but I did get a little bit worn.  I didn't have that extra bit in me that I feel like I have sometimes.  That was kind of frustrating. 
 
Q.  What specific things were in your mind when you say you couldn't get settled? 
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  Concentrate. 
 
Q.  What specifically were you thinking?
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  I don't know.  It was just like cold.  I was just cold.  I couldn't get warm.  I remember looking at the clock and it was 50 minutes, we were in the third set.  I'm like, "God, we should be in the first set.  What's going on?"  I was cold.  I could never get a read on his serve.  I couldn't find my game.  I don't know.  I was just telling myself just to keep coming, keep trying to focus.  It's hard to explain.  
 
Q.  What was the biggest crowd you played before today?
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  Probably the Lexington final.  It was a challenger.  I was in the final with Paul Goldstein.  I lost in three sets.  About 500. 
 
Q.  500 people?
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah (laughter).  We had a lot of people at college.  We had some duel matches.  500, maybe a little bit more.  It was very overwhelming.  It was different.  They were playing the music when we sat down and rested.  I had no problem with that.  It's entertaining.  But you've just got to get used to that.  It was good to be out there.  I wish I would have slowed down in those first two sets because maybe I could have got my rhythm back quicker.  
 
Q.  Did you ever play him before?
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  Never played him before, no, so... 
 
Q.  Are you thinking now that you played a great second-round match in the US Open, you took kind of the reigning boy wonder right to the max, or are you thinking, "I could have won this match, it got away"? 
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  Definitely, fourth set, a breaker.  Breakers are tight.  It could go either way.  I wanted to get into that fifth set.  I think if I got in the fifth set, I really would have had a good chance.  I respect him.  He's a great player.  I'm not saying I could have won.  I'm just saying, with the crowd, things just happen.  You never know.  But, yeah, it's tough.  I mean, now I'm done.  It was a great run.  It was a dream come true.  But I'm finished now.  I think I'm going to reflect and write down things that I've learned and experienced so I can learn from it and move on.  Now I've got to get ready for Tarzana, California, a challenger in a week.  It's different.  It's challengers.  This is it.  This is what you play for.  You have a good run like this, there's going to be a little letdown.  But you get back into your routine, your rhythm, and you just do it. 
 
Q.  A lot has been written about how you and Andy know one another.  I've read lots of things.  Do you consider him a friend or an acquaintance, his brother is your friend?
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  I knew John better.  I played John I think in the Easter Bowl.  I don't know Andy that well.  I talked to him in the locker room.  I was like, "Andy, we've got to get this straight.  I don't remember hitting with you.  You say that we hit."  I don't remember, maybe we did practice quick.  I just remember him when he was little seeing him at Kalamazoo.  I don't know him that well.  Hopefully I'll play more tournaments and be with him, I'll get to know him.  Seems like a really nice guy.  He's always nice to me.  He's a good guy. 
 
Q.  So acquaintance seems to fit?
 
JACK BRASINGTON:  Acquaintance is better, yeah.  I don't know him that well.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT