US OPEN
August 28, 2001
Jack Brasington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What was the story of that match from your point of view? 

JACK BRASINGTON:  I felt good.  I mean, beginning, you know, I won the first two sets.  I had a good game plan. 

Q.  Which was?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Felt comfortable.  My game plan, talking to the other guys, was just to go out and I was basically going after his forehand.  His forehand, hits a flatter ball.  I was trying to be aggressive and dictate.  And so it worked out.  I mean the first two sets I played well.  I served well. Then the third set, I don't know, I kind of lost a little motivation.  Wasn't dictating.  I didn't keep going.  I didn't keep at him.

Q.  Have you ever played a five-set match?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Never.  I never played a five-set match.  So, it was good to get through today and get the win but to know I can get through it. My fitness has always been good.  I've always felt my fitness, that's one part of my game that I always work on.  Because, yeah, definitely if you're not  -- if you're tired out there, it's  -- you're done. So that was neat, going to five sets today though.  Especially here at the Open.  It's been a  -- it's been pretty unbelievable.  I mean, as far as from the start.  My qualifying, winning the third-set breaker.  I mean, I could have been out of here in the first match in the quallies.  Then it was good, I got that under my belt, the first match, the quallies, it's always an ice-breaker.  Then I move on to my next couple matches and I finally settled in my third, my qualifying match against Agenor.  Then today I felt settled in. But I don't know, it's something.  Somebody likes me out there, I don't know.  But it's just amazing.  I mean, just kind of take  -- you know, it's a great ride.  I'm just keep  -- I want to keep it running.  So it's been good.

Q.  If somebody had told you a week ago this would be happening, what would you have said?

JACK BRASINGTON:  I would have been like, "Yeah, all right." But I don't know, you always believe in yourself.  That's one, you know, you tell yourself,  "Keep going, you can do it." But it's pretty much, I don't know.  It's just kind of  -- just come along.  You know, I haven't really  -- it's just overwhelming I guess.  I haven't really  -- but it's something. I mean, I was always like,  "You know, you can do this.  You can quallie and win a couple rounds, maybe more." I guess it's one thing to think it and another to do it.  I think this really helps me confidence-wise, knowing that I can do it.  It makes you believe in yourself a little bit more.  So that always helps.

Q.  What kind of treatment did you need afterward?

JACK BRASINGTON:  I got an IV and I was cramping a little, cramping up a little bit, but not bad.  I think I really needed to eat some food.  But IV kind of, that's my food.  But I'm hungry for later.  My appetite's good right now. 

Q.  Where are you going to go to eat?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Back at the hotel.  I'll just order up, take it easy. 

Q.  Where are you staying?

JACK BRASINGTON:  At the UN Plaza.

Q.  Have you been there since quallies?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Oh, yeah, the whole time.  Uh-huh.

Q.  How big a mountain is it to have to qualify then the tournament starts?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah.  Well, it's a big mountain, I guess.  In the beginning, that first match, just coming through and winning it, I think that helped me so much.  Because I really didn't settle in to my matches until the second round. You know, I don't know.  I was telling myself,  "Settle in, don't worry, just take it as another tournament." But it was just really hard  -- easy to say, hard to do.  Just everything, the atmosphere, it's really hard to settle in and feel comfortable.  Finally, it did.  So...

Q.  How many people were watching the first-round qualifying match? 

JACK BRASINGTON:  Oh, yeah.  I don't know.  I really try to just stay within the lines, you know, stay within the court and don't really look around too much and just kind of concentrate.  You know, always focused, always concentrating. 

Q.  You saved four matchpoints?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah. 

Q.  What happened?

JACK BRASINGTON:  What happened?  I don't know.  You just kind of lose yourself there in the moment.  I think it's good that I don't think too much out there sometimes.  I'm just thinking where I want my shot, or reacting more so.  I don't  -- I mean, there are certain times when you're not in like a sudden death or like a critical position like I was in, you know, you get more time to think about it. But on points like that, when you're down, you're just  -- I don't know how much you're really thinking.  You're just trying to get the ball back and you're , I don't know, just trying to focus as much as you can and just giving it everything, you know. 

Q.  When was the last time you were that close to elimination and you came through? 

JACK BRASINGTON:  I've had a lot of close matches, and it's been funny how they just kind of roll my way, knock on wood, right?  (Knocking on wood).  It's been something.  I've had a lot of close matches.  I don't know, I just play within myself.  I just  -- I don't know.  It's neat.  It just comes my way.  It's  -- I was at a futures match in Atlanta.  I played Jeff Morrison and we were in the third-set tiebreaker.  I had matchpoints and he did, too.  That was  -- went my way.  But it was something.  It was really  -- I remember that match well.

Q.  There's a guy out there right now getting beaten by Todd Martin who went deep into the French Open, Michael Russell.  Did you remember that and did you take inspiration out of that? 

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, that's the great thing about right now, coming through the futures and challengers.  We got guys, you know, Americans, we have an American group  - Morrison, Ginepri, Lavar Harper Griffith, Kendrick, Hawk. That's so neat because, like, you know, Morrison, I remember last month like he got to the final of two challengers, and it just boosts all the guys.  You know, it's great that we have this group right now and we're coming through, and it's really great because we're moving together.  It's just like, "God." One person does well, and we're like, "Yeah, we can do that." It kind of picks everybody else up.  We got a kind of special group going, and that's really neat in a sense that when one guy's doing well, like right now I'm doing well and Ginepri's doing well, and like Morrison should feed off that or Kendrick or the other guys that are with us, you know.  Because they're right there, too. And I think that's great.  Kind of keeps everybody going. 

Q.  There's another guy out there, Andy Roddick, who's playing now.  A little different. 

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah, he's kind of made his way already, so.

Q.  When you were young, I mean you obviously looked toward tennis and thought, "I could do this or that or anything." At what age did you realize you weren't going to be like Andy and walk on to be the Top 20 when you were 18 or anything?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah, I don't know, college was always a great experience.  Like when did I  -- I don't understand.  Your question again? 

Q.  Just sort of when did you sort of realize that you weren't going to be the kind of player to explode as a teenager; that you were going to go to college, have more of a slow build? 

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah.  I don't know.  Like after high school and through even my first couple of years in college, I mean, I was good and I had some good matches, but I never really exploded out until maybe my senior year I got ranked seventh in the NCAA.  And then I dropped to 27 my final ranking there. But I think it was more  -- you know what really helped me, like stepping stones, is after I graduated last year in May I played a tournament in Mexico, I played three tournaments and a won a future in Cozumel, my last tournament of the three.  That really helped.  Then I went out and I played  -- for a month there, I played in Missouri and Illinois.  I didn't win a match for that whole month, for four weeks.  I lost my first three weeks first round, then finally I lost second round. But I was like, "Gosh, what's going on?" And you just keep plugging away.  Finally, I went out to California.  There was a satellite there, and I won it.  It was just like that helped.  I think it's one of those stepping stones you take. Then this year playing in future tournaments, getting to the finals kind of helps you confidence-wise.  Then I'm moving into the challengers.  And I play  -- I had great results in Lexington.  I lost to Paul Goldstein, but I made it to the final.  And it's like, "God, I'm right there.  I can do this." I mean, yeah, you have hard matches, but you have more confidence instilled in you and you keep it going.  You know you can do it. And so, I guess it wasn't until the end there that I started kind of working my way up the ranks and so...

Q.  What about the difference in sort of the facilities and amenities when you're here versus in all those challengers and futures?

JACK BRASINGTON:  It's like I'm spoiled now.  (Laughing). It's great.  Especially working your way through satellites and futures  - it's a grind.  Guys, I mean you respect that, just working your way up and knowing that you go to these places during the futures and you get hardly any money.  I think first round is $180.  You get maybe  -- you don't even get a point, I think, first round.  You have to get to the second round to get one point.  It's just a battle.  I mean, guys are just  -- you got to just keep fighting and get through that.  Hopefully  -- and the good thing with me is that I did get through that quickly.  It took me about a year to get through that.  And I'm finally up to the challengers. So, I mean...

Q.  I noticed you have a degree in Corporate Communications. 

JACK BRASINGTON:  Corporate Communications, so I'm ready for you guys (laughing). 

Q.  Probably more than ready.  But how important was that to do the college thing?  That's very different than a lot of the players we saw today. 

JACK BRASINGTON:  Well, you know, I mean everybody has their own road.  It was great for me.  Just traveling with a bunch of guys, get my education, just the experience.  I wouldn't, you know, look back and say, "Gosh, I should have done something different." Because the college life, the college experience, I met my girlfriend there, so hey, you know... But, no, I would never regret it.  I mean, college was a great time for me.  Good experience.  You know, I think maybe it was a challenge for me to get the two things, my tennis and my schooling in.  Because you can't excel so much in one thing.  You have to pace yourself and do 50/50 or 60/40, you know.  I think that helped me mature, you know.  So...

Q.  By the same token, coming out of school, you're not like a guy who's at 16, 17, "I'm a tennis player.  I'm going to crash and burn as a tennis player."  Do you say to yourself, "I'm going to take a shot at this for a year or 18 months.  If it doesn't work out, I'll take advantage of my degree"? 

JACK BRASINGTON:  Exactly.  That was my backup plan.  You know, you believe in yourself but it's tough.  You have some losses here and you're just like, "Do I want to keep going?  I love tennis, but maybe I should, you know.  Travel and, you know, it's rough with my girlfriend." I mean, "Would I rather just settle down and get a settle-down job?"  Yeah, I had thoughts like that.  Take in, maybe go to grad school.  Definitely. Sorry, I lost myself. 

Q.  Did you give yourself a timetable and say, "If it doesn't happen for me within the next X amount of months and years, then I'm definitely going to get out of here and go to an office or grad school"? 

JACK BRASINGTON:  My first year I told myself,  "Go through your first year, get the experience," because it takes, you know, getting used to.  At least give yourself a year to get used to everything. My shot was  -- I think it was three, three years.  The first year, get used to everything.  You know, get through the futures, satellites.  Second year get up to the challengers.  And then my third year, that's when I would know.  Because they say, you know, can you break the Top 100?  That's when you know.  I think you can get close to that.  If you break the Top 100, that's when you know you have it. So I was giving myself a three-year window there.  So...

Q.  You've taken a big step with this win today.  Are you ready to take the next step and play possibly on Ashe Stadium against the hottest commodity?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah, it would be great.  I'm ready for it.  I respect his game.  I've seen him.  He won DC, Legg Mason last week.  I know he's ready.  I just  -- but it's gonna be a good test.  I'm gonna go out there and play within myself. I think I've gotten used to all the hype.  You know, I'm past that.  People talk and  -- but I've been really good, you know.  Okay, you know, I can listen to it and whatever and take whatever, what it's worth.  But I don't get  -- it's funny how people that aren't playing on the tour or they have  -- I don't know.  It's a lot of hype, you know, and I'm glad I've gotten through that.  I've gotten used to it and I can handle it.  But I'm excited.  I'm real excited I got through today and I'm looking forward to seeing what he's gonna give me, you know.  He's battling now. But, yeah, I'm ready.  I feel good.  I'm playing well.  Just stay and play within myself and see what all goes. 

Q.  You recently moved to Virginia?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah, I'm in Virginia because my girlfriend, she's working  -- she has a great job with Exxon Mobile.  So she's doing great.

Q.  What do you think of living near Washington?

JACK BRASINGTON:  It's great.  I'm lucky that I can  -- I found a place to train.  She works out of Fairfax and I found a Four Seasons Tennis Club.  That's where I train, Jim Shepherd (phonetic spelling) and Bob.  Other guys, Barry Scholfield (phonetic spelling) who went to UVA and Octovio (phonetic spelling) who's working on his Masters now.  Those guys have been great.  I'm so lucky I found a place like that I can train at.  Good guys, and they support me.  They give me a good workout, you know.  That's what I need.  And that's great, you know.

Q.  When did you move?

JACK BRASINGTON:  January. 

Q.  And you're near Arlington?

JACK BRASINGTON:  Yeah. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT