ROGERS CUP
August 9, 2019
Karen Khachanov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. KHACHANOV/A. Zverev   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you say your relationship with the Montreal crowd has evolved over the last 24 hours?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: You mean in a better way or not (smiling)?   
 Q.  You tell me.  
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, like I said yesterday, it was obvious that when you play against local guy, Canadian, the crowd would be mostly on his side.  But today was 50/50, was really nice.  Nothing to complain.   
 Q.  Now you're playing your countryman, Daniil, in the semifinal.  What are your thoughts on that matchup?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: I mean, never easy to play against a friend from the same country.  We grown up together.  We played all the tournaments since 12 or 14, I would say, and the team.  We know each other pretty well.   
From one side is difficult, but from other side both of us, we know what to expect, how we are playing completely different styles.  Yeah, would be interesting match.   
We played just once in Moscow last year, in our hometown.  Was also more tension because you play at home especially.   
Let's see.  Let's see how it goes.   
 Q.  Your semi with Daniil tomorrow is the first all-Russian semifinal since the '90s.  Do you think you and Daniil will make the big Russian rivalry of the current time?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: I hope so.  I mean, simple to answer.  It's nice to make, like, kind of history.  Still it's a long way.  If we can make some records or making more history, it would be just great for us and great for the country, of course.   
 Q.  What did you make of today's match?  Seemed like Alexander was very frustrated.  
KAREN KHACHANOV: Sorry?   
 Q.  What did you make of the match today?  Seemed like he was very frustrated.  What were your thoughts on today?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: I think he didn't play his best, of course.  On the other side, I played a good match tactically, I played solid from the baseline.  Maybe he was missing a little bit more.  That's why he got frustrated.   
Once you are missing and losing, you are never happy.  Doesn't matter against who you play.  It's how you play.   
 Q.  Between you and Medvedev, you must have played a lot together over the years, practiced.  Who wins the most on the practice courts?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: Honestly, the funniest thing, we don't practice together a lot of times.  I think both of us, like I said, we play a little bit different style of play.  This year we practiced just once in Sofia.  It was in February.  Actually in Washington last week, but it was just like easy practice.  We just arrived together.  That's it.  We didn't practice against each other so many times.   
Mostly I was hitting with Andrey Rublev.   
 Q.  You switched racquets a couple times this year.  Last I read about it, you were unsure if you were going to stick with Wilson.  Have you made a decision?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yeah, that's why I'm painting the Wilson sign.  It's all clear.  I decided to stay with Wilson.  From Washington it's, like, official.   
 Q.  What does it mean to Russian tennis to have two top-10 players playing the semifinal?  How big is it going to be back home?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: I hope big, but you never know.  Of course, after a while that two guys from the same country in the top 10, it's great, of course.   
On the other side, maybe we used to have higher standards in Russia.  They are expecting maybe once you start doing it more consistently, you go deeper in Grand Slams.  Maybe that's the case if people start to more talk about you, support or let's say make it really big.   
On the other side, there are so many people around the world, Russians, who truly support you, coming to watch tennis because they love it.  There's always different kind of public in the country:  some of them expecting you to do maybe better things, some of them, they appreciate what you're doing right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT