ROLAND GARROS
June 6, 2019
Karen Khachanov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/K. Khachanov   
6-2, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What could have been done better on this match?  Do you think sometimes you could have changed the result?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: I mean, tough to say, of course.  I could do better.  I mean, that's obvious, you know, when you lose in three sets.   
So I could have done better, but, you know, that's always a question of how the other guy is playing.  So, you know, I felt today that he's one of the best on clay.  You know, I felt it on court, not only talking.  Because I was watching his matches, and I knew how he's playing.   
But today was really tough for me.  You know, he was always putting me in tough situations, tough situations for me to play aggressive.  You know, I was never on the, like, on the stop, you know.  I was always on the side.   
Yeah, of course, I could have done better.  I could maybe miss less, make more winners.  But that's always a question when you know how is the other guy playing, how is myself.  That's tennis.   
 Q.  Given that you're now disappointed, but when you're looking back at Paris in autumn and now the quarters here, what do you make of these past months?  How much did you improve?  How much did you increase?  Is this now your best period of tennis that you have had so far?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yeah, of course, you know, you're not satisfied when you lose, but you need to take some positives.  Of course it was a great tournament.  Best-ever Grand Slam for me.  I played really good level overall.   
On the other side, I had not so good start to the season, and that's why I'm really happy to being able to turn around this here in Paris.  Comparing to end of the last year, you know, I think if I made a quarterfinal of a slam, it's a better step.  I have never done it before.  So for sure I could have done better things, I think.   
So that's why I was able to basically make this step forward and, yeah, I hope to continue like that, you know.  I hope to have less, you know, these downs and from now on to start playing better and better level of tennis or similar level of tennis and to be consistent, let's say, again, like I had a run second part of last year.   
 Q.  You and Sascha, you were both from the NextGen...  
KAREN KHACHANOV: Not anymore (smiling).   
 Q.  Not anymore.  But he's just one year younger.  When you look at he might have been a bit quicker climbing in the ranking, but do you think you have now catch up with him?  You're made up for the little slower start maybe?  
KAREN KHACHANOV: There is also Stefanos Tsitsipas, I mean, who is behind Sascha.  So we are -- Borna Coric, Daniil Medvedev behind me.  I would say there are many guys that are in top 20 rankings right now.   
So, you know, everybody has different timing of rising up.  You know, he entered earlier top 100, earlier top 20, earlier top 10.  But I'm thinking more on the long-term goals, and slowly I'm achieving them.   
So, you know, I think that's a question if hopefully in the near future we are, as younger guys, slowly we will step forward and to try to go deeper in these kind of tournaments, you know.   
 Q.  You won indoor in Paris last year, best result in Grand Slam this year here.  It seems there is a story between you and Paris and the crowd was shouting your name during the match, so...  
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yeah, I really appreciate it.  That for sure gives me extra energy and motivation to play.  When the crowd screams your name, you cannot compare it with any other feelings, especially here in Paris.  I think that's why I have good connection here, let's say, with the people and with my game and with my performance.   
So I hope next time I will be in France, let's say, in Paris at the end of the year, I hope to have the same kind of energy and feelings.   
 Q.  I know you just came off the court, but looking ahead to the grass season, you're going to play in Halle, and can you talk a little bit about what you expect from the grass?  It's a surface that suits you.  You have done already good in Halle for tournament.  
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yeah, this year I was planning to play Stuttgart, basically, from next week, Halle, and Wimbledon.  That's three events on grass court.   
I like to play on grass, you know.  Unfortunately the season on grass is not so long.  You know, just having three, four tournaments in general, and you need to try to adapt as quick as possible.  So first few weeks usually they are, like, as preparation for Wimbledon, because, okay, of course if I can play good there, I will be happy.   
But it's not so easy straight to go from clay.  But nowadays, grass is much slower comparing to, you know, before.  I like to play on grass.  I am really looking forward.  You know, it's a little bit different, different points, different style of play, a little bit, you know.  I think it fits well my game, my aggressive style of play.   
So I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT