ROGERS CUP
August 10, 2018
Karen Khachanov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/R. Haase
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You just won a Masters 1000 event quarterfinal in 55 minutes.  Is that surprising to you at all?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yes, a little bit.  I mean, I didn't expect that maybe the score would be -- it looks easy, but the match was not that easy, let's say.
There were some difficult moments, especially at the beginning.  Was a little bit nervous to go on the center court and to find the rhythm for both of us.
And maybe it was not that beautiful game at the beginning, but then I found more the rhythm of my game, and I started to play better, yeah.
Q. Just in general for you, I mean, congratulations on making a Masters 1000 semi.  What does it mean to you and does it feel like it's something that's been a long time coming or is this something you're very satisfied with in the moment?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yeah, I'm happy with this performance that I could reach my first semifinal.  But I don't want to be satisfied because there is always something that you can do better.  So that's why I'm focusing already on the next match.
Q. What do you think the turning point of today's match was?
KAREN KHACHANOV: To keep my serve, to try to attack his serve, and then to play aggressive.  Don't give some -- for him some easy shots, to try to move him, and that's it, actually.
Q. Obviously we won't know who you play until this match is over, but just briefly on both Rafa and Marin.  I'm assuming that you look up to each of them.  But playing a Masters 1000 semi, you would be the underdog no matter who you played against there.
KAREN KHACHANOV: Is it a question or...
Q. Each of the guys as far as the matchup works for you and your game, Rafa or Marin?
KAREN KHACHANOV: I mean, honestly, I don't really care.  Because I played twice against Rafa.  And against Marin, I never played.  So would be interesting to play semifinal against both of them.  Both of the guys are top players.
So I'm really looking forward for both matches, both scenarios.  Again, it doesn't matter against who I play.
Q. Stefanos obviously has had an incredible run himself this week.  What have you witnessed of that, if at all?  I mean, have you been impressed with the way he's been able to play with a big upset over Sascha today?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yeah, I'm following him in general.  He's been playing great the last couple of months.  He's showing good results, good tennis.  Very talented guy.  Also good physically.
And today's match, honestly, I didn't watch much because at the same time I was practicing and warming up.  So that's why just watched a couple of games in the second set when actually Sascha was leading.  So yeah, didn't expect that maybe it would -- he could turn around the situation in this match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT