ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2017
Karen Khachanov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/K. Khachanov
6-3, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. You are probably disappointed at this moment, but can you appreciate what just happened, your first match on such a court against such a player?
KAREN KHACHANOV: No, of course, never fun to lose a match.  But I mean, I took a great experience from this match to play on the center court.  So it was huge, you know, and I was enjoying.
And, I mean, all the credit to Andy even that maybe, of course, I could play in some moments better or not, but he's World No. 1 for some reason.
Q. What did you learn from play against Andy?  Because it's the first time you played against a big four.  What did you learn from the match?
KAREN KHACHANOV: I had to stay focused all the time, like, in some tight moments to try to do what I had to do and maybe not to miss some easy balls sometimes.  So yeah, I think it's a kind of concentration to keep this during entire match.
Q. You served great in the previous matches.  Maybe it was a bit down today.  But how good is the return of Andy?  Have you experienced such a return before?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yes, of course.  That's why the difference is that, okay, the other guys maybe didn't return as good as Andy did.
So on the other side, yeah, I was missing a little bit the percentage of first serves.  And to make more aces, maybe more precise a serve.
But as I said, on the other side, all great to Andy.  I mean, he's one of the best returners on tour.
Q. Last year you won in Chengdu, your first ATP title.  So are you make sure you will go back to defend your title this year or you're not sure now?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yes, yes.  I'm planning to play there, yeah.
Q. What are your plans for the coming weeks?  Have you made your schedule already?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yes.  I will do full grass season, you know, grass court season.  I started in Stuttgart, Halle.  We will see exactly which tournaments I will play.
We have to talk with the team to see what is better for me now to practice one more week or to, yeah, just go almost straight.  I mean, not straight.  Still I have a few days but we will decide now soon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT