ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Karen Khachanov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/T. Berdych
7-5, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Roland Garros debut in the third round taking out Berdych.  How does it feel and what does it mean for you?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Of course, it feels greats for me.  It was really, really good match from my side.  I did everything what we planned with my team and with my coach, so in these terms I think the result came to me.
Q. So what are your expectations coming into this tournament and now that you're in the third round?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Still stays the same; to focus on every match and to try to do my best, and then we'll see where it's going to bring me.
Q. How do you feel like your level is, your level right now?
KAREN KHACHANOV: I mean, I like the way I was playing and the way I'm practicing.  So that's why I said I have to focus on what I do well and just try to keep doing it next matches.  Yeah.
Q. How do you like clay in general?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Like I say, that I like it here.  From last year, I think I started to play more events on clay and this year the clay season until now it's going well for me, yeah.
Q. Obviously, people in tennis know who you are already, but do you feel like this result kind of takes you to another level maybe?
KAREN KHACHANOV: I don't like to do something now like unbelievable.  I won one of the matches and second round, so I have to focus on the next one.  I don't like to put myself, you know, so high now.
Q. Are you surprised by how straightforward it was against Berdych today and how well you were able to stay ahead of him for the whole match or does it feel quite normal to you now?
KAREN KHACHANOV: As I said, I did all the things that I had to do from my side and I was concentrating during the whole match and during the whole set.  At the beginning I broke him, and I think in the second and third set, so just keep my serve, kept my serve.  And yeah, did what I had to do, yeah.
Q. Also as you train in Barcelona, do you spend most of your time on clay these days or hard courts indoor?
KAREN KHACHANOV: No, like normal.  When I practice in Barcelona depends which part of the season it is.  So when I have to prepare for hard I practice on hard.  We have hard indoor, hard outdoor, clay.  Yeah.  All kind of surfaces.
Q. When you see Zverev winning in Rome and all the talk saying your generation seems ready to take over, does that play some part in your mind on motivation thinking, okay, maybe the time is coming for us right now?
KAREN KHACHANOV: We just support each other.  I think we're like good friends between each other, and I was happy for him that he won this tournament in Rome.  And just, yeah, I have to focus on myself, and it gives me maybe motivation.  To each other, for all of us, I think, when we are playing well, we encourage each other and motivate each other, yeah.
Q. So next round you have one of the few guys that's taller than you, John Isner.  How are you going to approach this match?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Still it's too early to say something.  I just finished my second round.  I would like to relax and speak later with my coach about the next round.
Q. I think this is just your third main draw at a Grand Slam.  Are you used to it?  Because, obviously, the Slams are different and it's busier and everything is bigger.  And just how do you feel being around here and how do you stay focused, I guess?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Just trying to adapt like all the players.  Just doing my routines, my things, you know.  Here I came three days before.  I practiced well.  And just, yeah, of course, it's crowdy and I try to go around, you know, all these people.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT