DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 24, 2020
Karen Khachanov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/M. Kukushkin
7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What are your thoughts on the match?
KAREN KHACHANOV: Yeah, was not easy opening match. Always first round is pretty tough. You know, in those conditions, like I was mentioning before the tournament, I always try to get used to it. I'm really happy I could get the win. I have another match, another opportunity to play better, like always, to improve.
The most important is the win. I'm really happy with that. There were some difficult moments during the match. I was break down two times. That's really great to keep that set, the first set. I think it was important one. The second set was going everything much better.
Q. What would you have to do better in the next round?
KAREN KHACHANOV: I mean, there are few things. I would say hit better, feel a little bit more the ball on the racquet. Sometimes I frame it up today. I was framing it up. Yeah, just to find more balance between aggressive shots and still pushing through the ball.
I think footwork was good. Serve was okay. Yeah, some situations where I was actually taking the lead, but I couldn't finish the point. I was missing some quite easy balls. It's never easy. But still they were like really, really close to the net that I should finish it up and just make those points.
I don't know if it's about focus or concentration or just tight moments into the match.
Q. Does it help you that you have been here for some time?
KAREN KHACHANOV: I hope so. First of all, I live here. Second of all, yeah, this year I decided to train even more here, to spend more time. I really love Dubai.
I hope that time that I spent in December, January, it will help for the tournament especially.
Q. What do you like about it here?
KAREN KHACHANOV: I just like the city. I mean, it's very touristic. You have a lot of things to do. You have beach, different places to visit. It's good to mix up with your free time, with your family. You go to the beach. You can do it even in January. I mean, even though they think it's cold here, but I don't think so compared to Russia.
I just really like Dubai. It's very international. There are a lot of Russian people here, as well. That feels like kind of home.
Q. When you play someone who you have not beaten before, who your ranking says you should beat comfortably, is there a little bit of tension or nerves? Was that maybe why you started slowly?
KAREN KHACHANOV: For sure, there are always nerves. I think there is pressure for everything, like I said many times. The point is how you deal with it, how you go through it.
You can go out from the court winning or losing, but there are sometimes really small difference between win or lose. It can decide a few points, a few important ones. That's why sometimes you just see the result, but you don't see the reality. Maybe you were really close, but you just didn't close the match.
That's why, yeah, it's really important to stay there mentally, to have a mindset to fight till the end. That's what I'm doing actually all matches, in the practice, in every match on the tournament. That's all I can do. The results will be up and down. You just try to win as more matches as possible. Basically there are no secrets.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT