NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 19, 2013
Gary Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  GARY NEAL:   You have to look forward to Game 7.   Game 6 is over with.   There's nothing you can do about it now.   Miami, they made plays down the stretch to win the game.   So there's nothing we can do about that now.   We're not going to waste energy thinking about Game 6.   Game 7 is our only focus.   It's our only game left.   Last game of the season.   Most important game of the season.   That's where our focus is at. 

Q.   Obviously they made plays, but there were also opportunities for you there as well.   Is that what makes it a little bit harder? 
GARY NEAL:   No, it doesn't make it harder.   We have to put it in the rear.   We can't go into Game 7 thinking about Game 6.   Game 6 has no bearing on Game 7.   It's over.   It's done.   We know that. 
We can't have a mental hangover from Game 6.   We have to come in Game 7, focus on Game 7.   Nothing about Game 6 is relevant. 

Q.   The way everybody is writing you guys off, saying there's not even a need to play Game 7 because of the way Game 6 ended, do you take motivation in that that people are saying it's a forgone conclusion? 
GARY NEAL:   Until you told me that, I didn't know anything about that.   During times like this, during the playoffs, you don't watch SportsCenter or anything like that.   That's not our concern.   The people in the locker room, the coaching staff and the players are all we're worried about.   Everybody believes in each other.   We believe we have what it takes to get a Game 7 win.   That's the only thing we're worried about.     What it takes to get a Game 7 win.   So that's the only thing we're worried about. 

Q.   Have you ever been in a situation that comes close to resembling this? 
GARY NEAL:   No.   I've never been in a situation like this. 

Q.   How do you expect to prepare for this? 
GARY NEAL:   Just go out there in Game 7 and be mentally focused as you can be and go out there and compete your butt off.   Hopefully you'll make more shots than you miss and be able to win the game. 

Q.   The fact that you said earlier it's the last game of the season, does that help you get over whatever happened in Game 6?   There's no hanging the head?   There's no moping around? 
GARY NEAL:   You know, we don't have time to mope.   We don't have time to hang our heads.   We have to get ready to play tomorrow. 
One thing is a fact, if we come out and perform the way we're capable of performing for Game 7 and get the win, nobody will ever talk about Game 6.   Game 7 is the most important game.   Game 7 is the only game we're worried about. 

Q.   Which players in the locker room have been the most vocal and what are they saying? 
GARY NEAL:   Everybody on our team is a professional.   Everybody knows what we have to do.   Individually and collectively as a team.   We don't have those kind of leaders.     We have guys that show up on the court.   That's how our leaders.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT