NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Gary Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GARY NEAL: I played well, shot the ball well, a couple rebounds and I just helped the team win. That was the first time that I had completed, and that made me realize that I can play here in the NBA and I can contribute. I don't know, maybe that was my 35th game of the season or something like that.

 Q. It's been well docked that you and your wife have not had a honeymoon; is that still holding up? 
 GARY NEAL: Yeah, yeah we haven't had a honeymoon. She's living the dream like I am, too. She's here in L.A. with me and she'll be going to the game tonight. 
 We have had a lot of mini-honeymoons, being in Vegas for the summer league, that was a mini-honeymoon. She enjoys herself in Vegas because I can only do so much because I'm playing Summer League. She'll enjoy herself tonight. But I've got to stay in shape and stuff like that to get ready to play. 

 Q. One married guy to the other, do you just give her the credit card and say, go have some fun?
 GARY NEAL: That's exactly what I do. Go have some fun.

 Q. That rookie per diem is not what it should be. 
 GARY NEAL: More than I was getting in Europe; so, I can't complain.

 Q. The journey from there to here, in a nutshell, would you change it? Has it made you who you are, 26-year-old rookie who basically has no fear?
 GARY NEAL: Yeah, I think getting my shot in the NBA at 26, coming into a coach like Coach Popovich who is a great coach, a Hall of Fame coach, but he's very direct and to the point coming in maybe at 22 or 21, I might not have been able to handle a coach like that mentally and could have affected my performance on the court. 
 But coming in at 26 and playing three years in Europe has made me more mature and able to handle a coach like that and handle the pressure from a Hall of Famer like Tim Duncan and players like that. I wouldn't change it, coming into the NBA at 26 and being able to burden a whole lot more as far as the pressure and the intensity of the NBA. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT