U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2019
Joseph Pagdin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, Joe, you took care of business on the back nine.
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah, didn't play too well all round.  Started off strong and kind of struggled throughout the middle of the round and had a few sloppy shots here and there.
Just needed to sort out my tee shots on the last few and stay positive.  I was obviously 1-down and I was 3-down the other day, so I knew never to give up and keep fighting.
He made a bogey on 14, and then on 17th holed out the bunker shot for par.  Then I had about a 20-footer downhill for birdie and I made it, so good way to end the match.
Q. And then how did you birdie 11, too?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: 11 I had hybrid off the tee and had about 155.  Hit a flighted nine, which ended up being like a foot and a half.
So obviously that was a no-stress birdie.  That's what you got to do around this course.
Q. When somebody holes out from a bunker like that in match play, what's the mindset?  Are you good at moving on?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah, I mean, obviously it was a great shot.  Chunked his first one and then the next one was good, so I knew that obviously two-putt would go to the next hole.
I didn't want to go to 18.  As history has shown, person who is up doesn't usually win it.  It's one of those drivable holes and not sure what to do off the tee.
So I just did what I did the past few days when I had putts to win.  Gave them a bit more break and less pace.  Soon as I hit it I knew it was in.  That was good.
Q. How much does playing in those other events, like playing in the amateur across the pond, if you want to say that?  How much has that helped you in this tournament?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah, helps me a lot.  For the past three or four years I played for England Golf and the GB team, so going back there every summer to play the British Am, European Am, St. Andrews links, all good prep for match play.
Last week I was in France for the European Team Championships so I got some practice before, but I love match play.  Definitely helps me play match play throughout the season.
Q. I know it could be in the back of your mind, but when you have performances like this, are you thinking, Hey, this is going to help me making the Walker Cup team?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah, obviously I'm very young and I don't have expectations to get in because there are many great players out there and I am young.
But it would be obviously an honor.  And if I can play my way into, I just want to do my best.
I've had some good results this summer, and if I can keep going in this event and get a good event, I can get my world ranking up and hopefully be in the shout.  Obviously be a dream come true to play in the Walker Cup.
Q. Last one:  I know you were the last one to get here to play in this championship.  Did it take you a little bit of time to get into the flow here?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah, I mean, I'm drained.  I've been on the road for five weeks nonstop playing match play, 36 holes a day.  But I think when your here the jet lag catches up but you're living on adrenaline and the rush, so it won't be until after the tournament where I'll really crash.
I'm just trying to keep hydrated, stay positive, and get my rest when I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT