U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Joseph Pagdin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This morning, we'll start there.  Tell me a little bit about the morning match.  You were down three after 13, I believe.
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah.  I mean, I got off to a rough start.  I wasn't quite on my game.  You know, I've been very experienced in match play, so I knew anything could happen.  Just kept playing my game, doing the things I needed to, staying aggressive.
Then I made a few putts on 15, 16, 17 -- or 18, then obviously the one on 19.  So, I mean, it was a good battle.  He played well and barely missed a shot all day.
I was happy obviously.  Was clutch to get a few birdies on the last few, so pretty excited about that.
Q. Were any of those birdie putts standout where you're like, Okay, I got this; I'm in and out?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah, I mean, the one on 16, that was a decent putt.  I had a good line on that.  The one on 18 was the one that stood out to me.  I had about 30 feet and it was probably five feet of break and I said to my caddie, This is going to go in, and it had to go in.  I hit a decent putt.  Got it just to the right edge and it dropped.  That was obviously good.
Then on 19, soon as I hit it I knew it was in.  Little bit of adrenaline kicking in on that, so just glad it happened at the right time.
Q. Do you think the adrenaline from the morning match carried over?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah, definitely after exciting finish.  When I had some lunch I had to calm down and refocus and act like nothing has happened.  I went out and obviously played two holes and then we had a rain delay for an hour, so that was a bit tricky to try and stay in it.
But then just started off after that playing solid golf.  (Indiscernible) couple times which I haven't in the past few days.  Made a few putts.  Keep the pressure on.
Then unfortunately bogeyed 14 and then was good to finish with a birdie and win 4 and 3.
Q. Yeah, you've played in a few Junior Ams before, making it to the round of 64 and then 32 last year.  Do you think that experience has helped you?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Yeah, I mean, obviously the past two years playing this event, but, I mean, what really helped me the past three weeks has been playing Wyndham Cup and the European Boys' Championship in France.
Match play is my favorite part about the game.  I love it because anything can happen.  You don't have to play great.  Like yesterday I shot 5-over and won, but then you can shoot 6-under and still lose.
So it's fun.  Definitely experience has helped me keeping cool and maintain my nerves throughout the round.
Q. What do you need to do tomorrow to be in this same position?
JOSEPH PAGDIN: Just play my same game.  Fairways, middle of the greens.  Obviously this course is a monster.  You can hit some good shots in the rough and get penalized.
So I am just going to do the same thing I've been doing:  keep it in the middle of the green, play my own game, and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT