ATP CUP
January 9, 2020
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. KYRGIOS/C. Norrie
6-2, 6-2
Team Australia - 1
Team Great Britain - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You obviously relish this format with the ATP Cup. Are you reaching sort of a really good peak at the right time before the first slam of the season?
NICK KYRGIOS: I wouldn't say that. You know, I really do love -- I love the ATP Cup. I love any sort of team format. I'm just taking it one match at a time. I'm not even thinking about the Australian Open or what time of the year it is.
I'm just doing whatever I can and whatever I can do in my power to get the best out of the team and myself. That's all I'm thinking about at the moment.
Q. You were having a few words with Dan Evans when you were serving out there. What was being said there?
NICK KYRGIOS: Me and Evo, you know, we're really good mates on the tour, basically brothers. I kind of knew that he was going to get into me a little bit, but it was quickly shut down.
But, you know, I was expecting it, to be honest.
Q. When you got broken in the second set there, it was the first time you have been broken in this tournament. I think 35, 36 service games in a row you have won. Do you feel like this is as well as you have served in a while?
NICK KYRGIOS: I actually thought I served really awful today, to be brutally honest with you. I wasn't feeling my serve at all. It was probably the worst service performance I have had in the Aussie summer by far.
But I was playing really well from the back. I was returning really well today. But, yeah, I mean, I was just -- I don't know. I tightened up a little bit, but, yeah, I responded well.
Obviously broke next game, but I just felt today I wasn't serving my best. I don't know what it was, but I'm just glad I got the job done.
Q. You have got your eyes glued to the screen watching Alex. You guys have become incredibly close over the last 12, 18 months and before that. Has the increase in the amount of team events brought you guys closer?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I guess so. I kind of look at him as my little brother in a way. I just try and be a good influence on him whenever I can when I'm around him, and I think he feeds off my energy a little bit.
It doesn't take much. It could be cartoons on TV. I'd probably rather watch that than talk to you guys. I'm just kidding. It was a joke.
But I love watching him play, and I think all of Australia do. He had a great year last year, and I think it's only going to get better for him. The things he can do in this sport are pretty special, I think.
Q. Is the threat of your underarm serve becoming a bit of a weapon? I saw you had your opponent on a back foot a few times just in two minds whether you were going to use it.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I think any time in a match where the opponent stops thinking about what he needs to do and starts focusing on external things like that, I think I've got an edge straightaway.
If it gets in Rafa's head, then it's a success.
Q. How much have you enjoyed the team zone, having the guys right there with you the whole time? I know Jordan was up there, as well. Is that extra special to you to have them there?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was awesome. Today they were really close. In Brisbane they were still kind of in the stadium, in the stands type thing, but they were right there today.
I felt it. You know, they were all having their input. I really enjoyed it. It was awesome.
Q. Obviously there is a bit to go in this tie, but if Alex gets up or the doubles get up, you'll play Spain potentially. How do you think your little brother will match up against Rafa at this point of the summer?
NICK KYRGIOS: Great. You know, I think we've got great insight to how Rafa plays. I'm not too sure.
I don't really want to talk about it yet, because Evo is an unbelievable player. He's more than capable of doing some great things. I don't think this is a conversation we should be having.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT