AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2017
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. KYRGIOS/E. Gastao
6-1, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was the most pleasing aspect from your point of view with that win?
NICK KYRGIOS: I guess just the way I got through the match pretty fast.  I think I reserved a lot of energy.
I was actually really impressed with the way I served, the way I returned.  I obviously haven't played that many matches leading up to the match.  That really usually doesn't affect me.
There's always a bit of prematch nerves as well.  Obviously starting with a lot of expectation in the Australian Open.  I was just happy the way I got it done pretty quickly, yeah, the way I was playing.
Q. You think that was a perfect start to the campaign?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I think it was.  I didn't really see too many things.  Obviously every aspect can get better.  I thought I did everything pretty solid today.
Q. Are you conscious of reserving that energy with a knee injury?
NICK KYRGIOS: Definitely, definitely.  I don't even think it's about the knee.  In general, if you happen to go deep, it gets pretty tiring.  So you just want to reserve that mental energy and other parts of your body as well.  The quicker you can get it done, the better it is for deeper in the week.
Q. Is that something you learned from past experience in slams?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, 100%.  There have been times where I've been pretty banged up by the end of the first week.  You play tough players, and their bodies are in elite shape.  It's happened to me against Murray a bunch of times.  I feel like I'm stronger, and I've learned that you've got to save the energy.
Q. Is that same with emotions?  You seemed pretty composed and relaxed out there tonight.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, definitely.  I'm just trying to pick my times where I try and get myself up for it where I know there's a little gap where I can sort of push and get in front.
I thought today was a good example of me sort of trying to find that balance.
Q. We talk about all the success of the Aussies.  Do you feed off that?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't necessarily feed off it.  It's great to see.  It's great to see.  Obviously today, I think De Minaur had a great win.  That's not easy playing a guy that has been around for a while.  Being match point down maybe in fourth set and coming back, that's awesome.  Something I never did at 17.  That's massive for him.
Obviously a couple guys went down today, a couple Australians, but a couple won.  It's good to see.  It's not just a couple players being able to push and win rounds.  We've got a pretty deep sort of lineup now, which is good to see.
Q. You spent some time with him during Davis Cup.  He said he picked your brain a bit.  What sort of things would you have said to him?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know if you'd want to pick my brain (smiling).
I know he's capable.  He had a great junior career.  Finals in Wimbledon.  He knows how to play.  I don't really need to tell him anything.  He obviously knows how to hit the ball pretty well.  I can probably teach him a couple things.  I feel like our game styles are a little different.
He is doing great.  He can have great good career.  Great athlete.  Good competitor out there.  Yeah, he's looking good.
Q. What was the blood nose incident tonight?
NICK KYRGIOS: I've just got a problem with my sinuses.  I have blood noses a lot.  It happens.  It's not a one-off thing.  Happened to me at Wimbledon, the French Open.  Happened to me a lot last year.  Two years ago at the Australian Open.  Happens a lot.
Q. Roger Federer was quoted today saying he didn't think you were ready to win the Australian Open right now.  Do you have a response to that?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I'm not going to, like, say anything back to him about it.  Obviously it's his opinion.  Everybody has it.
We'll see.  You know, I've done everything I can so far.  I don't really know what to say.  What can I say?  It's Roger.  I can't really say anything to him.
Q. Andreas Seppi said he was hearing you request Hisense again for your game.  He might request Court 19.  Are you confident your request might win out?
NICK KYRGIOS: Honestly, Seppi is one of the guys I always liked to watch when I was a younger kid.  I don't really care where we play.  I don't think it will be Court 19.  I think people will want to watch that match.  At the end of the day, I kind of bring the crowds.  It will be Hisense.
Q. What was going through your head tonight going out onto Hisense?
NICK KYRGIOS: A lot of emotions.  Obviously I know that I played well here before.  I know my preparations haven't been as good as I'd like them to be, obviously with the knee.  But I just want to go out there and have fun, try and enjoy myself, try and strip it back and just play some tennis.
I thought I had some fun tonight.  Yeah, I just want to get back to it and try to have fun again and really enjoy it.  I know I can do well at these tournaments.  My level has been great all the last year.  I'm 13 in the world.  I'm not in a bad space.  Try and be positive, try and enjoy myself a little bit.
Q. Towards the end of last season was that sort of waning, sort of gone?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yes.  It's hard for me to stay happy on the road.  I know it's a great opportunity to go and see new places.  But I get homesick quite easily.  It's not easy being away from your home, being away from your girlfriend.  I just wanted to be with them.
Q. On Seppi, you played him a couple years.  Tough campaign.  What are you expecting from him this time around?
NICK KYRGIOS: You know what you're going to get with him.  He's a tough, tough competitor.  He knows his game style.  He's been around for a long time.  I know what it's going to be like out there.  He knows what I'm going to bring.
It's going to be a good match.  Obviously he didn't have the greatest year last year.  His ranking slipped a little bit.  He's a floater.  Everyone knows he can bring that level.  He beat Roger two years ago.  I know what he's capable of.
Q. If there was one rule or tradition in tennis that you could change, what would that be?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't want to change the sport at all.  It's given me a lot of things.  It's given me a great opportunity.  I've met a lot of people through it.  I wouldn't change anything about it.
Q. You've spoken in the past about how you idolized Roger and how you look up to him.  Does what he said motivate you, hurt you, not bother you at all?
NICK KYRGIOS: Doesn't bother me at all.  I know he's the greatest of all time.  I know I just want to do my own thing.  I played him once, I beat him once.
Q. Do you think you are ready to win the Australian Open this year?
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, if I didn't think I'd win it, why would I play?  I think I can win it.  I've beaten pretty much everyone in the draw before.  So I think so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT