SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. ZVEREV/N. Kyrgios
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You weren't exactly yourself out there today.  What was the problem?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, just tough.  Obviously I played a lot of matches in a row.  Physically tired.  Mentally tired.  I guess, you know, that's why I'm trying to work on being able to be consistent every week.  Just took the easy way out tonight and obviously didn't show up at all.
Q. Was there something in particular that annoyed you?
NICK KYRGIOS: Just tough.  I mean, you've got a guy who is pretty hungry to get back in the top 100.  He played well, as well.  At the same time, you know, it was just tough for me to do anything right.  I mean, I just struggled in every aspect today.
Q. Was that the most frustrating you have felt on a tennis court?
NICK KYRGIOS: Not at all.  No, not at all.  I wasn't so much frustrated.  Just -- no, I just tapped out a little bit, I guess.
Q. Can you understand why some of the fans were booing and jeering?  There was an argument at one point.  Do you understand their frustration of what they saw?
NICK KYRGIOS: Not at all.  I feel like if they knew what they were talking about they'd be on the tennis court and being successful, as well.
No, I can't really understand it at all.  They don't know what I'm going through, so, no, I don't understand it.  Do you?
Q. Yeah, I do.
NICK KYRGIOS: Okay, good.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
NICK KYRGIOS: My arm was a little sore.  My arm was a little sore.
Q. Do you not think that they, having paid money to come in and watch you, deserve perhaps a little better?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't owe them anything.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
NICK KYRGIOS: What does that even mean?  I'm good at hitting a tennis ball at the net.  Like, big deal.  I don't owe them anything.  It's like it's my choice.
If you don't like it, I didn't ask you to come watch.  Just leave.  If you're so good at giving advice and so good at tennis, why aren't you as good as me?  Why aren't you on the tour?
Q. People have paid money to watch that and they have seen what you've done before, how you played in Tokyo last week.  You can't understand why they are disappointed in what they saw today?
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, that's your choice.  You want to buy a ticket?  Come watch me.  You know I'm unpredictable.  It's your choice.
I don't owe you anything.  Doesn't affect how I sleep at night.
Q. Do you want to qualify for London or you're not bothered?
NICK KYRGIOS: I couldn't care less, to be completely honest with you.
Q. Why?  Because you just had enough of tennis at the moment?
NICK KYRGIOS: Just -- big deal.
Q. Do you care at all about your opponent?  I mean, you didn't show him respect in that match.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I showed him plenty of respect.  We're great mates off the field.  You have no idea what I deal with.  You know, I'm good friends with him, nearly best friends with his brother.
What are you talking about?
Q. Will you finish off the season as you planned, or do you think it's time to pull the pin?
NICK KYRGIOS: Don't know yet.  Obviously got some tournaments scheduled.  I'd like to play them, but -- yeah, I'm entered to play them.
Q. Which ones?
NICK KYRGIOS: Basel and Paris.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT