ROGERS CUP
July 25, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. SHAPOVALOV/N. Kyrgios   
7-6, 3-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think Denis did well today?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, I think he's a great player.  Obviously he's won a lot of matches over the last couple of months.   
You know, he's coming off of one of the best results of his career.  He has a great future.  I'm really looking forward to see how he's going to progress into the seniors and transition.  He's a top player.   
 Q.  Just the way you have come in suggests that there was a physical problem with your knee.  
NICK KYRGIOS: It's just a bit hot outside.   
 Q.  It wasn't a problem during the match?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No.  It's just a bit hot.   
 Q.  I think you had 18 double faults.  What was the issue?  Was it mental, technical, physical, something?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Jeez, I didn't know I had that many double faults.  That's pretty bad.   
Yeah, it was just bad serving day, I guess.  I need to practice a little more.   
 Q.  Is it difficult at all playing against a player you're less familiar with with Denis?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No.   
 Q.  Sort of an unusual position for you being the veteran playing sort of the young upstart.  It's usually the other way around.  Did you feel that at all?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No.   
 Q.  Just not in the cards for you tonight?  How did you approach this one here tonight?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not great, obviously.  I don't know.  Obviously my preparation, obviously -- I don't know.  I just didn't play great.   
He played well.  You know, obviously he was excited playing in front of his home crowd.  I know what it feels like obviously to come off one of your biggest junior results and then play in one of your home tournaments.  I know that feeling.  It's great.  I hope he enjoys it and rests up and does well.   
Yeah, I'm not going to tell you what I did or didn't do to prepare for this match.  I just played pretty bad, but he played great and he earned it.   
 Q.  On court you almost seemed sort of surprised by your own performance.  Does that seem accurate?  Because you were having sort of a long conversation with yourself and talking to the crowd, as well.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I guess I was surprised by my performance.  You know, I knew I wasn't playing great.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  Where do you go from here and what's your schedule for the rest of the summer?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I have no idea.  I have no idea.  I think I'm playing Atlanta next week.  I have doubles tomorrow.  Hopefully that will cheer me up a little bit.   
 Q.  What sort of advice would you give Denis having all this attention now that we will sort of heap onto him and the home country really focused on him having the experience you do in Australia?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I think the Canadians probably support their athletes a little better than the Australians do.  I think he's going to do great.  He has a great support team.   
I think I saw -- you know, obviously he can play in big moments.  He won Wimbledon, obviously.  That's not easy.   
It's going to be good.  He plays 300 still.  He has a long way to go obviously to get to the top 100 but I have no doubt he will get there quickly.  He has to keep playing his game and keep working hard.   
 Q.  You said that Canadians support their athletes a little more than Australians.  Do you want to expand on that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I think it speaks for itself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT