WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/N. Kyrgios
  7‑5, 6‑1, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. How did you assess that performance?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It was a good first set. The rest of the match was pretty pathetic.   
   
 Q. Did you feel as though you lost focus early in the second set, had trouble getting it back?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I was really comfortable out there the first set. I thought I was playing some really good tennis. I believed that I could win the match.   
As soon as I lost the first set, I just lost belief. Obviously felt like a mountain to climb after losing the first.   
He played pretty well, as well. I don't think he missed too many balls either.  
   
 Q. Andy is obviously a quality opponent. What lessons do you take from playing against him in a few Grand Slams now?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Just a little soft still. I think when things get tough, I'm just a little bit soft. I mean, I've got experience, but it ultimately comes down to just laying it all out there and competing for a long time. I didn't do that today at all.   
   
 Q. On the BBC, you were saying you might need to take things more seriously. After a match like that, do you feel like you haven't been?   
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know. I just said it just to get out of there.   
   
 Q. How much do you feel the first week took a toll on you both mentally and physically? Was that a factor today?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I didn't think it was. But yeah, I mean, I actually did feel a little tired out there. But, I mean, a lot of players are in the same position that I was.   
   
 Q. When you said you lost belief when you lost the first set, was it a switch flicking, you thought it was gone?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Kind of, I guess, yeah.   
   
 Q. Do you think Andy will win the tournament?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I hope so. I hope so, definitely. I think he's definitely got a great chance.   
   
 Q. John McEnroe was saying he thought you had the ability to win multiple Grand Slams, but he feels you're at a crossroads until you get a coach. What is your reaction to that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.  
   
 Q. You're obviously a fantastic talent, greatly entertaining. Do you think you're applying all you have in your gut and heart to becoming the best pro you can?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No.  
   
 Q. Is that something you want to address and change?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.   
   
 Q. Do you enjoy the sport? Is it something that you really love and enjoy, or do you find it more frustrating than enjoyable?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, at times, like, I've previously said, I don't love the sport. But, you know, I don't really know what else to do without it.   
I obviously like playing the game. It's a massive part of my life. But, yeah, I don't know whether‑‑ I don't really know.   
   
 Q. What was the thinking of your preparation, spending a lot of time on Court18 to watch Lleyton? Do you think you should have been doing something else?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Whether I was in the locker room sitting down or sitting down next to the court I don't think really made a difference.  
   
 Q. Do you feel like you're at a crossroads here after this today, it's going to go one way or the other with your career?  
NICK KYRGIOS: What do you mean?   
   
 Q. You're either going to learn from this and become a better player, you said you don't love the game, or you might just walk away? Is it that sort of level?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Walk away from what?   
   
 Q. From your tennis career.   
NICK KYRGIOS: I just lost in the fourth round. I didn't lose in qualifying. Feel like I'm doing all right (laughter).   
That's a diabolical question.   
   
 Q. There were times in Andy's early career where he was cramping up, had difficulty with games, wasn't enjoying it all the time. Is it worth the time speaking with him to make it more fun? It's a tough journey. Seems like you're not enjoying it.   
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I could talk to him about it. Probably not the next couple days, though.   
   
 Q. He was in here the other day saying to us to basically give you a break, that he believes you are going to make it. What kind of effect does that have on you? Does it help in the difficult moments? Sounds like he's pretty much in your corner.   
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I don't really understand the question. What are you asking me?   
   
 Q. To hear someone like Andy saying he's in your corner, you'll be able to make it. Does that help you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It helps for sure. He's one of the greatest players to play the game.   
I mean, I know that I have the talent to do good things. It's just, yeah.   
   
 Q. You said no when you were asked if you were putting everything you had into this. What are the things that might change that? What can pique your interest or give you a bigger drive?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know. To be honest, I woke up this morning and played computer games. Is that the greatest preparation? I don't know. But it was fun.   
   
 Q. You said you see life through the lens of the NBA. The Golden State Warriors picked up Kevin Durant.   
NICK KYRGIOS: Disgrace. It's a joke. I'm not watching the NBA.   
   
 Q. Andy spent longer with you at the end of the match than normal. What did he say?  
NICK KYRGIOS: He said, Sorry.   
I said, It's okay. Just win the tournament, please.   
Then we hugged.   
   
 Q. You see these guys like Raonic going to McEnroe, Cilic going to Goran Ivanisevic. What is it that says to you, I don't want a coach?   
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know. Just, like, one week I'm pretty motivated to train and play. I'm really looking forward to getting out there. One week I'll just not do anything. I don't really know a coach out there that would be pretty down for that one.   
   
 Q. This is not a bad loss, but you seem pretty down. Wondering where the disappointment comes from?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It's not a bad loss. You know, my record here is 10‑3, I think. Every time I come here, I lose to good players.   
But it's just disappointing. I don't know. I just want to do better.   
   
 Q. Do you think part of you is perhaps frightened to make the commitment, to throw yourself wholeheartedly in?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Possibly. I've thought about it before.   
   
 Q. A number of great players, including John McEnroe, Tsonga, briefly even Roger, didn't have coaches. Is there something you like about the freedom of not having an adviser, just trying to figure it out yourself?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I like that.   
   
 Q. What do you like about it?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Just doing whatever you want, I guess. I like it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT