WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Can I ask you about the draw, please.   
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah. Obviously I'm 18 in the world and got moved up to 15, which is obviously pretty exciting for me to be 15 seed, obviously pretty positive.   
But to play Stepanek obviously is pretty tough. I'm really good mates with him as well. To be honest, he was offering to help me a little bit, he's getting towards the end of his career. He's still playing some great tennis. I know it's going to be very tough.   
I feel like grass is his best surface. Yeah, I mean, if I get through that, Dustin Brown in that section as well. For me, they're just fun matches. I'm not looking too far ahead. I know the Kyrgios‑Murray fourth round is, like, pretty exciting, but I've got some tough matches ahead.   
   
 Q. When you said he offered to help you, in a coaching role?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not so much coaching. Yeah, he was just helping me a little bit. So it's just, like, I'm playing him now, it's pretty crazy.   
   
 Q. How has your preparation been in terms of your grass court play?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Really good. I lost first round at Queen's. I thought that was a tough match. Milos was playing some great tennis. Made the final there. Was up a set and break against Murray. I feel as if I had chances to win that match.   
I had a couple matches at Boodles last couple days. I had a some great practice this morning on the match courts. I feel my preparation has been as good as any time. But saying that, I have some tough matches coming up.   
   
 Q. This event was one of your first really big breakthroughs. What is it like for you when you come back here now and be a bit more familiar with the surroundings?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I guess it's just comfortable. This is definitely one of my favorite times of year, coming here. I love how all the players sort of stay in houses around Wimbledon Village. I love the setup. I can bring my family over, have that home sort of feeling.   
Around the courts, I feel so comfortable here. I've made a couple deep runs in this event.   
I feel that grass is a surface where most of the Australians can do fairly well. I feel I can do fairly well, as well.   
   
 Q. Any superstitions that you're following this year?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not at all really. I've been fortunate enough to have my family here. They're cooking for me. Sometimes we're going out to dinner with some of my friends.   
I don't really have any superstitions. I'm just really trying to prepare well. Trying to every time I step out on these match courts, starting a couple days ago, even at Boodles, trying to create some good habits going out there.  
   
 Q. Have you always been comfortable on grass or was there a time that all of a sudden made you feel better?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I feel comfortable on grass, I always have. I think in Australia, we are fortunate enough to have tournaments on grass for younger kids. Fundamentals, serving big, trying to play aggressive, I think that carries through.   
I mean, guys like Bernard, as well, he's always known how to play on grass. Yeah, I mean, looking at him, he set an example for us on grass. I mean, Lleyton, as well.   
   
 Q. When you watch Djokovic play, what are the things that you think about most about his game, that you appreciate most?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I think for me, as an athlete and the way he moves, the way he's behind every ball, his returning for me, stands out the most. He hits the ball so clean no matter where he is on the court. He maintains such good court position.   
It's tough for opponents to be aggressive because he hits the ball so deep as well. I could go on for hours about his game.   
   
 Q. Who do you consider the favorite here?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Probably Djokovic. It's a silly question. No more questions for you, bro.  
   
 Q. Sooner or later when you come to this tournament, you're going to see yourself as a title contender. Has that time arrived or is it too soon to be talking about that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I made quarterfinals two years ago. I feel as if that run, I didn't really expect anything at all. But I feel confident in my game. I feel like I'm getting better.   
But there's so many players at the moment that can make deep runs. Goffin, Thiem. Especially on grass as well, there's so many guys that can serve big, play big. If the stars align, they can do well.   
I feel there are a lot of title contenders. Say Djokovic loses in the fourth round, I don't know, he was down twosetstolove against Anderson last year. If something like that happens, there's plenty of people who can have their eye on the trophy this year.   
   
 Q. Have you been following the rugby at all, your views on England beating Australia so easily?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I've been playing computer games.   
   
 Q. What feedback have you gotten from other guys from back home pulling out of the Olympics?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I haven't been hearing too much at all. I haven't really been focusing on it at all to be honest. It's actually been pretty good. Not too many people have been in my ear about it. So that's been good.   
   
 Q. Last year obviously was a little bit of a difficult time at times with some fines and criticism from Wimbledon chiefs. Have you been told at all about on‑court behavior or it's simply not an issue this year?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I thought last year I played all right. I made fourth round. Lost to Gasquet. He made semifinal. Lost 7‑6 in the fourth set after four hours. Not too bad.   
   
 Q. Specifically about the on‑court behavior. There were a few fines for throwing racquets, swearing.   
NICK KYRGIOS: Competing.   
   
 Q. Have you been instructed, warned about that behavior?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No. I just compete.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT