ROLAND GARROS
May 22, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. KYRGIOS/M. Cecchinato   
7-6, 7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How did you assess that today?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I thought it was really tough.  I thought when I woke up this morning and saw the rain I knew it was going to be heavy conditions.  And obviously not having the warmup before, you know, that's never happened to me before.  I knew it was going to be a bit of a leveler out there.  We were both going to be a little bit cold.   
I thought he played really well.  I thought -- I wasn't really expecting him to, you know, the way he played the dropshots and he was very crafty.  I knew it was going to be a tough match.  He had two set points in the second set.  I mean, I was a bit lucky at times, but I'm just happy to get through.   
 Q.  The Rome finals Djokovic was complaining it was too slippery.  How did you feel today?  Were you scared?  Did you change your game?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not so much.  I thought the rain just made the conditions a little heavier, but it didn't really change.  It wasn't so much slippery.  The lines were -- it was surprisingly okay.   
 Q.  It got a bit tense at the end of the first set.  What was your take on the code violation?  You seemed a bit upset on the court.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Definitely.  I thought it was a little bit rough.  Yeah, I mean, I can't do anything about it now.  Obviously it was just his personal opinion on how he thought that I went about it, but, I mean, it is what it is.   
 Q.  Regarding the same thing, do you feel like you're not getting enough respect or credit from the umpires or that you're not being treated equally?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No, not really.  They're all just -- I haven't had too many bad experiences.  It's not an easy job out there.  Especially five-set matches, to concentrate, I think they do a good job.  All in all, they do a good job.   
 Q.  You made a reference to the Djokovic incident in Rome where he man-handled the umpire.  Is there a sense amongst yourself or a wider sense in the locker room that maybe we are not privy to that not enough was made of that incident and it was rather passed over?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I think we all know in this room if that was me that did that, it would be an absolute circus.  But if he did it, you know, nothing really happened of it.  It speaks for itself.   
 Q.  What do you know about your next opponent, Igor Sijsling?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he's been on tour for a long time, and I know he's probably played a lot of Grand Slams and my good friend Thanasi played him a while ago, so I know what kind of game style he plays.  I'm just glad I got through today and got a couple of days off and can do everything I can to prepare for that.   
 Q.  You had a bit of a hip issue in your previous tournament.  Everything okay with that now?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, everything's fine.   
 Q.  You fell quite heavily at one point in the first set and landed on your elbow.  Obviously you sorted through it.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I was fine.  You know, he just made me slip.  I'm okay.  I'm okay.   
 Q.  When something like that happens in the first set where you're clearly bothered by the exchange with the chair umpire, how easy or hard is it for you to move on from that?  Does it affect your play in a good way, in a bad way?  What sort of lingering effect can something like that have during a match?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I thought I dealt with it okay.  It didn't put me off too much.  Of course it's frustrating, but I think with someone like me that's pretty emotional it can frustrate me a little bit, but I felt like I dealt with it pretty well.  I thought -- you know, focus in that first set is obviously very crucial to win in a best-of-five match.   
 Q.  Among your disagreements with the umpire was couple calls here and there.  How do you feel not having Hawk-Eye at an event like this or on clay in general?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I think you should just have Hawk-Eye.  Maybe not on all the courts but maybe on the main ones.  There has been a couple of calls in the last couple weeks that have been really close.  You know, I have seen pictures, seen the Hawk-Eye and it's actually in.  I don't think it can hurt, but I don't really -- I don't think it could hurt having Hawk-Eye.   
 Q.  Lleyton Hewitt was in your box.  What is the role of Lleyton Hewitt when it comes to your tennis right now?  
NICK KYRGIOS: He's just a good bloke.   
 Q.  On that code violation, do you think you should have gotten that?  It seems like it was for yelling at the ball kid.  Do you think that's a fair reason to get a code violation?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I think, you know, every time I get a towel from a ball kid I say thank you.  Sometimes when you're a bit frustrated you do -- obviously, you know, not scream at them but you do get a little mad at them.   
For me that time I didn't get mad at all.  I just said it a little bit loud.  The crowd was going on.  And if we're going to play by the rules, you have 20 seconds in between points, so I'm not going to wait for the crowd to quieten down to get my towel.  I just felt like it was a bit rough.   
 Q.  On that same note, is that one of the more delicate balances in tennis?  You're surrounded by all these kids on court and you're trying to be professional and intense and engage in your match but you have the young kids around you all the time?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yes and no.  I think the kids do a great job, especially the Grand Slams.  It's usually up to scratch.  They did a great job today.  I'm not even sure if all of them speak English.  I might have to be a bit more patient.   
They did a really good job today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT