DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 25, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. KYRGIOS/T. Berdych
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Good day's work.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was -- you know, I wasn't in the greatest shape, obviously.  I think I got a bit of food poisoning last night.  I was really surprised with the performance I gave out there today to come out there and beat a quality player and in tough conditions.  It's probably my favorite win over the last couple of weeks.
Q. How difficult is it to play such a world-class player back to back within five days?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's tough, especially with Tomas.  You know, he's so diligent with everything he does.  He's so professional.  So for me to come out there and put in a great performance like that, I just took my chances when they came.
The conditions were really fast.  When one of us got a pretty good strike, I think the point was pretty much over.
Q. Was there a point in the match where you feel you had the match in control?
NICK KYRGIOS: I knew from the start that I was going to be in control.  The way I have been serving, the way I have been returning, I knew I was going to get chances.
Yeah, I thought I just competed well.
Q. Did you say food poisoning?  If it is, what did you have?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.  I don't know.  I didn't feel great, though.
Q. What was the medical timeout?  Was it your back, was it?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, just a bit stiff.
Q. What do you take from a win like this, considering that you also beat him last week?  What are the positives?
NICK KYRGIOS: I get more points, more money (laughter).  I get to stay in Dubai another day, I guess.  It's really good weather.  And good food, I guess.  (Raised eyebrows.)  (Laughter.)  That's it, really.
Q. If it is Stan Wawrinka next, how do you view that contest?
NICK KYRGIOS: I think we have talked a lot, obviously, since the incident.  I think we have both moved on from it.
We played on the same team in IPTL.  That was actually really good.  I got to know him a little bit more.  He played great there.  He's one of the best players in the world, no doubt.  He's playing great tennis.
Whether it's him or Kohlschreiber, I'm not going to do anything different.  I'm just going to go out there and see what happens.
Q. Have you been talking to Lleyton much during the course of the week or course of the fortnight?
NICK KYRGIOS: We have this Davis Cup sort of WhatsApp group, and I'm probably the least involved in it (smiling).
Q. Do you think after winning last week and after Dubai you will be tired from that heading into Davis Cup?  What are your thoughts on that?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, 100% I will be tired.  I'm only human.  You know I'm going to be tired, but no matter what, if I'm going to play, I'm going to, you know, do my best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT