INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 9, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. KYRGIOS/S. Caruso   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I want to ask you, what do you think about Tomic and his retirement here in Rome?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I don't really know.  I haven't really been hanging out with Bernard or speak to him too much.  I don't really know what his injury was or what was going on.  I'm sure something is not right.  You know, he doesn't obviously want to push it I think a couple weeks out from the French.  I mean, that's the main target, and obviously Wimbledon following after.  Whatever it is, I'm sure he just wants to get healthy and obviously get ready for two major tournaments coming.   
 Q.  How much do you enjoy playing on clay?  How much do you think it suits or doesn't suit your game?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, it's probably my least preferred surface, to be honest.  I actually don't play too bad on it.  Obviously last week I had a really good result and semifinal the week before.   
I think it suits my game quite well.  It gives me time to set up and really go for my shots and then execute.  Obviously my serve, I'm serving well, and I think if you've got a good serve you can serve for any surface.   
I just think I move really well on clay which is a bit surprising to some people, but I think clay is a great surface.   
 Q.  What do you think about this tournament?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's great.  You know, they try really hard.  I think the setup is really good for the fans.  I think the fans can interact with the players more than other tournaments.   
But, you know, I enjoy playing here.  I didn't do great here last year, but I feel more mature and moving forward this year can put in a consistent performance.  I enjoy Rome.   
 Q.  What is your reaction when many people say that you could be the next top player in the world, one of the top three or so.  Do you think it's an exaggeration?  Do you believe it?  Do you think you just have to wait for the fab four to decline?  What is your reaction towards that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, I have beaten three of the four, and I haven't played Djokovic yet.  I don't think it's an exaggeration.  I think I still need a lot of time.  I need to do a lot of hard work, a lot more matches.  I need to grow more and become stronger and more fitter.   
I don't think it's an exaggeration at all.  I have beaten most of them, anyway.   
 Q.  It's possible you could play Milos next.  I think you've got two wins in your last two matches against him.  Would that be a strong confidence boost going in?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I'm confident going forward, but at the same time he's got one of the best serves in the world.  If he's having a lights-out day when he's everything, you can't really do too much.  I'm going to go out there and do what I have been doing and just compete.  If I happen to win, I win.   
 Q.  I don't know if it was asked before.  I hope it's not a repeat.  There were some comments from the Australian press about what Tomic did when he played with the racquet on the other way.  They said, Well, for the Olympic Games for us is not only important the results, so what you do but also the general behavior and things like that.  They were referring this to him, but I read also something related to you.  I'd like to know your comments about what do you think about the Olympics, if it's important or not that you show some sort of style and...  
NICK KYRGIOS: Are you done?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Okay.  Yeah, for sure, I think, you know, you have to -- the behavior has to be, you know, monitored going into the Olympics, representing your country.  But, you know, at the same time I think, with Bernard's case with that match point -- I mean, it's not easy playing Fabio on clay.  It's Bernard's least preferred surface.  I'm sure he competed nearly every other point in the match.  I don't really know what he was doing, but that one point he gets scorched for when he probably tried his heart out the rest of the match.   
But I just think it's -- I mean, if you don't want to pick me or Bernard, you know, there are plenty of others you can pick to represent your country, as well.  If you don't want two of the best players in Australia to represent your country, so be it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT