SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/N. Kyrgios
  1‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. How did you think the conditions on the court were today?
NICK KYRGIOS: I thought the conditions were almost perfect. There was a little bit of a breeze out there. I thought it was really good serving conditions. Yeah, it was one of the best courts I ever played in. I really enjoyed it out there. 

Q. Given how well you started, does that feel like a bit of a missed opportunity today?
NICK KYRGIOS: Not at all. I thought I started really well. He probably started a little bit slow. But I served well in the first set. I would have liked to have maybe made a couple more first serves in the second and third. I'm obviously disappointed with the loss. 
But I competed well. I left it all out there. He was too good today. He played some really clutch points towards the end of that match. He was too good.

Q. Can you run us through what happened at the end of the second set. 
NICK KYRGIOS: I didn't even miss a ball at 5‑4 in the second set. I thought I played a good game. That's why he's one of the best players in the world. He made me play four tough points. I think he hit three or four winners off every ball there. 
I wasn't surprised that he raised his level at that certain stage of the match. 

Q. The code violation, tell us how you saw that incident. 
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I didn't hit the ball in anger. I just hit it. Obviously it was pretty close to the line umpire. It wasn't out of rage or anything. 
I mean, obviously I didn't think it was worthy of a code, but he thought it was. That's not too bad.

Q. You didn't get any luck when you asked the supervisor to come on. He didn't have any sympathy with you?
NICK KYRGIOS: No. I just wanted to tell him. He obviously said what he needed to say. It comes down to the umpire's decision. So it's fine. 

Q. In situations like that, it did look a little harsh, do you think at the moment your sort of reputation goes before you a little bit, you're a marked man?
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I don't see any other players doing that really. But, you know, I mean, it's fair enough. I probably shouldn't have done it. But I didn't think it was too bad. I don't know, can't really change it now. 

Q. I think you were arguing with the umpire. You didn't feel it was unsportsmanlike? That fine can be up to $10,000. How concerned are you that you're pushing to the $5,000 barrier?
NICK KYRGIOS: Not concerned at all. If it happens, it happens. 

Q. Since the probation came out in the summer, have you been trying to keep your emotions in check more on the court? Is it something you think about when you're out there?
NICK KYRGIOS: Definitely. I didn't think I behaved bad at all out there today. I thought I was good mentally. I showed emotion, but at the same time I played great. 
I don't think I was bad mentally at all. 

Q. You said in the second set Kei started playing good. Specifically which part do you think makes him tough to play?
NICK KYRGIOS: He's the best returner I've ever played to this day. He's got unbelievable returns. He completes unbelievably well. 
Obviously, I wasn't giving him too much rhythm. He just stuck to his guns, he just kept making me play extra balls. 
He is so fast, makes a lot of balls. His backhand is unbelievable. He's one of the best in the world. He just makes an unbelievable amount of balls. 

Q. What is your plan now for the rest of the season? Doing anything different over the pre‑season to get yourself ready for Australia?
NICK KYRGIOS: I got doubles this afternoon obviously with Bernard. Looking forward to that. Then I'm going to head home next week. Just get four, five days at home just to rest. Then head back to Europe for Valencia and Paris. I'm done for the rest of the year. 
I've got IPTL a little bit later. I haven't really decided yet where I'm going to go for my pre‑season. There's a couple options there. 

Q. It's been an interesting year, I imagine you'd describe it. How do you feel about getting to the end of it?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I'm actually feeling pretty good. I got told this time of the year's tough for all the players. Everyone's looking forward to just finishing. I'm actually feeling surprisingly pretty good. I'm actually a bit disappointed that the season's coming to an end. I think I'm starting to play some really good tennis. 

Q. You were saying you hadn't decided exactly what you're doing in the off‑season. Have you decided where you're going to play the first two weeks of next year?
NICK KYRGIOS: Is that before the Australian Open?

Q. Yes.
NICK KYRGIOS: I think I'm playing‑‑ where am I playing? I actually don't know. 

Q. Lleyton looks like he's going to get the Davis Cup job. I believe the players are very supportive of that. How do you feel about that appointment, if it happens?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, that's great. You know, I think he deserves it. He's probably the one guy I would probably point my finger to if I had to choose a captain. 
I'm just glad he's taking over, to be honest. Yeah, I'm going to feel a lot more comfortable playing Davis Cup while he's in charge, so... 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT