U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/N. Kyrgios
7-5, 6-3, 4-6, 6-1
An interview with:
NICK KYRGIOS
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. When you first saw the draw, it was Andy Murray, what was your reaction?  Was it disappointing?
NICK KYRGIOS: It wasn't disappointing.  I would say it was exciting for me.  You know, I love playing these types of guys.  Obviously I would have liked to play him deeper in the draw.  Somebody has to play him.  I think he's probably in the best form of his life.  He can go really well, potentially win it.
It is what it is.  I thought I hung tough out there tonight, competed well, feel like I'm getting him ready for the next round.
Q. Lots of opportunities, lots of wasted chances.  What went wrong?
NICK KYRGIOS: That's a bit rough saying 'wasted chances.'  I thought I created opportunities.  I tried to take them.  I thought he served pretty clutch in certain situations.  His defense was unbelievable again tonight.
Q. Were you having trouble seeing the ball on the ball toss in the lights?
NICK KYRGIOS: The way the lights were positioned on the roof was a bit tough for me, especially with the ball toss.  I sort of got used to it towards the end of the match.  This is the first time playing at night with the roof.
It felt completely different to last year when I played without the roof.  The court itself is unbelievable.  The speed of it, it's perfect in there.
Q. You seemed to be going for a lot of flashy shots.  Night session excitement.
NICK KYRGIOS: I'm playing those shots whether it's day session first on.  When I'm getting lobbed and running back, I think that's the easiest shot for me to hit, to be honest.  I'm not a massive fan of trying to hit a lob off a lob.  I thought a made a couple, but yeah.
Q. The controversy that's been swirling around you for the last couple weeks, did that take a toll on you tonight?
NICK KYRGIOS: No, I wouldn't say so much tonight.  I thought I've been dealing with that pretty well.  Obviously it's been tough.  But I think I've moved on from it.
I thought I put in a really good performance tonight.  Obviously it's not the result I wanted.  But I thought I was focused and ready for today.  I had a good preparation.
Q. Do you understand there may be some animosity among the crowd after what happened a couple weeks ago?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, 100%.  Still people in the crowd that are unhappy with what happened.  And that's only normal.
Q. Any more thoughts about that behavior and the way forward for you, whether you'll grow up from this experience?
NICK KYRGIOS: I'd like to think that I'm going to learn from it.  I think I have.
I think I'm on the right path.  I don't think any of us in this room right now were perfect at 20.  Speak up if you were.
Q. You lost concentration sometimes, in the big points when you had some break opportunities.  Did you get distracted?
NICK KYRGIOS: No, I really enjoyed the atmosphere in there.  I liked it.  It's more laid back than Centre Court at Wimbledon or Australian Open or French Open.  It's good there's a lot of noise in there.
I thought I played well.  I created opportunities.  I didn't serve my best; yet I still put myself in some winning positions.  I just didn't come away with the win.
Q. How high a priority is it for you, the Davis Cup, coming up against GB?  What is your preparation leading into that, assuming you're selected?
NICK KYRGIOS: I haven't thought about Davis Cup yet.  Rusty, Bernard are still in the tournament.  All their focus is on the US Open.  We really haven't been talking about it too much.
Q. When you have a break between sets or another long break, what is your approach?  What are you trying to do in terms of rest and focus?
NICK KYRGIOS: The breaks?  I simply just take a break just to get changed.  I was a bit sweaty out there so I just got changed.  I don't use is strategically or anything.
Q. It looked at one time you may have been trying to sleep a little bit.  What was going through your mind?
NICK KYRGIOS: Just taking a nap, I guess.  It's good for you.
Q. With the sleeve, you took that off later on?  Why do you wear that?  Raonic tells us initially it was a support thing; now it's a mental thing.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I just wear it because I like it.  It's not against the rules.
Q. No, no.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I just wear it.
Q. Is Lleyton an adviser, part-time coach?  I know he's the Davis Cup captain.
NICK KYRGIOS: I'd say he's a mentor for me.  He's been helping myself, Thanasi out as well.  He's taken time out.  I'm really thankful for that.  He's really helped me a lot the last couple weeks.
He let me stay with him in The Bahamas for some preparation.  He's been a massive part of getting my head stable, and being able to have the performance tonight, I think that's massive.  Yeah, that's all Lleyton.
Q. What is it about Lleyton that has brought you that steadiness?  What does he do for you?
NICK KYRGIOS: It's easy to listen to him obviously.  He's been there.  He's won Grand Slams.  He's won here.  But he's been through it all.
I think we got a really good relationship now, which is going to be unbelievable for Davis Cup.  I have really good trust in him.
Q. He's had his controversies in the past.  Did he talk to you about that and maybe help you in that part of the situation?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I mean, I know everyone has controversies.  You just got to learn from it, simple as that.  He's obviously matured, as well.
Q. As well as the pressure on you, there's been a lot of international pressure on the male Australian tennis players, a lot of talk about bad boys.  Are you curious that you think something needs to be done to change that reputation?  Do you feel you take some responsibility for that talk?
NICK KYRGIOS: The funny thing is, myself, Thanasi -- well, I don't think Thanasi is in that category.  Myself and Bernard, it's so funny, Bernard, he's harmless.  He's just a normal kid.  I don't really understand where he gets this reputation from, or where I get it from at all.
We show emotion out there.  We might not be the most usual tennis players you see.  Somehow we got this reputation that's just ridiculous.
Q. Are you aware of the comments from Andy Murray?  He was very supportive in the buildup, saying the guy is only 20, cut him some slack.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, of course.  I've had a really good relationship with Andy for a long time now.  I've played him a lot.  Never beaten him.  I got a set off him today.  I'm making progress.
He's always had nice things to say about me.  We've had a lot of conversations on Twitter and stuff.  Whenever I've needed something, I've come to him.  I've sort of looked at a guy like him that's a really good role model for everyone.
Q. You've said a couple times you learned from the controversy.  What did you learn?
NICK KYRGIOS: Keep your mouth shut at times.
Q. You seem to really thrive on the dramatic conditions, even playing in a very dramatic fashion.  Do you think you'll ever level off?  Would it be good for you?  Do you really need to have these dramatic moments, unbelievable ups and downs, swings of energy, that sort of thing?
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, yeah, I guess it's nothing that's been different in my career.  It's always been like that.  I've always been an emotional person on the court.  And, yeah, I like going for shots that aren't high percentage.  I just got a really good self-confidence.
I think obviously I've had some really big wins.  I don't think I'd be able to have those wins if I didn't have that sort of confidence by me.
Q. Back on Davis Cup.  How do you see Australia's chances in the semis?
NICK KYRGIOS: Pretty good.  Pretty good.  Yep, really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT