AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. KYRGIOS/P. Cuevas   
6-4, 7-5, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  We didn't hear the explanation you gave about the shorts.  What happened?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Just a bit of a mix-up before the game.  I guess it will be fixed by the next round.   
 Q.  Does it impact your game, the way you play, when you're irritated, or is playing angry almost a good thing?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's probably not the best thing playing angry.  It does expend a lot of energy.  In best-of-five tennis, you want to try to not use that much.  You want to keep it all in the tank if you get that far.   
 Q.  What are you looking from your team in the players box when that's happening and your head is where it is?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Some new shorts, I guess.  And I got some.   
 Q.  How about the rest of your game?  Feel good with the backhand today?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, today was tough.  I knew it was going to be tough going into that.  He's a great athlete, makes a lot of balls.  I thought the first set was really key, had to get the first set.  I thought he was pretty high level.  We both played well from the back.  I didn't really think he could serve at that high level.  And he was really impressive, I mean, in that category today.  He served really well.   
 Q.  Berdych next.  You did pretty well against him in the IPTL.  Does that give you confidence heading into the next match?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yes, I guess it's completely different.  You can't compare Grand Slams to IPTL.  I know what he's capable of.  He's one of the best players in the world.   
Yeah, I've played him a couple times.  He's going to be wanting to win as much as I'm going to be wanting to win, so it's going to be tough.   
 Q.  Looked like you had a crack at one of those Tomic fadeaway droppers that he does.  Was that deliberate?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, every time we meet up, we sort of have a competition on who can do it the best.  He definitely invented that shot.  Every time I get the opportunity, I try and top it for some reason, and it got me in a little bit of trouble, to be honest.  But it's worth it when it comes off.  It's worth it, yeah.   
 Q.  Earlier this week you said you were not sure if you were going to stay up to the watch the Spurs' game.  How does someone from Australia become a Spurs' fan?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It's actually strange.  I used to play a lot of FIFA.  It's sort of died down a bit.  I don't play so much, but I'm a massive fan of Adebayor and he doesn't play there anymore.  I've just stayed with that team.   
 Q.  Why did you like him?  
NICK KYRGIOS: He was a boss on FIFA.  He was a scoring machine.  That pretty much just stayed.   
 Q.  Lleyton actually said in here last night he thought you were moving as well as he'd ever seen you move.  Would you agree with him?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Definitely.  I feel that's the biggest part of my game that's improved from last year.  I feel as if when I'm in the back of the court in a rally, there's not many balls that can get past me.  I feel really confident moving.  For me, that helps my game so much.  Doesn't feel like I have to be so aggressive, like I have to force so much.  I can sort of sit back and rally.   
 Q.  Probably be a pretty big atmosphere when you play Berdych.  Do you think that will get you over the line or will you need to bring something else to the game?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, the crowd's going to be crazy.  They all love Berdych.  He has a massive fan base.  He's one of the greatest players right now.  I'm not really thinking too far ahead.  It's going to be a really good match.   
 Q.  Will you have a chat to Bernie about that match?  He lost to Berdych last year here in the fourth round.  Does that give you any insight?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, when I talk to Bernard, we don't really talk too much tennis.  Maybe.  I don't think we're going to talk about it.   
 Q.  The treatment on your arm in the third set, nothing to worry about?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Nothing to worry about.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT