COUPE ROGERS
August 11, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. KYRGIOS/F. Verdasco
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

Q. Are you pleased with that performance? 
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, definitely. You know, I just played to get the win. I haven't played in a little bit. To come back out here and beat a quality opponent, you know, he can play some really good tennis, I'm really happy with myself. 

Q. (Question regarding playing a left‑hander.) 
NICK KYRGIOS: It's tough. These courts are really bouncy and lively. He's got a really good serve and a good forehand. 
I knew I had to take control a little bit. I thought I served well at times today. I just was really pleased with the way I finished the third set. 

Q. (Indiscernible). 
NICK KYRGIOS: At times I was. I served a couple big serves here and there. I thought I just competed well. That's the main thing. You're not going to always serve your best, but... 

Q. What about your match with Stan?
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, he plays unbelievable tennis. He's pretty much got big everything: big serve, forehand, backhand. He's a great athlete as well. 
I'm just going to go out there and play my game and see how it goes. 

Q. Doubles now with Lleyton Hewitt. Tell us about that relationship, how it came about. 
NICK KYRGIOS: He's definitely not my coach. Let's clear that up now. But he's definitely helping me out. He's taking time out of his own career and family to come here and help me. That's really good to have that person that I can sort of ask questions and lead me in the right direction. I think that's really good. 

Q. Is 'mentor' a word you would use?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, definitely. 

Q. (Indiscernible). 
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, I got to just serve well. I think that's the main one. If I'm serving well, there's only so much people can do. Obviously I can't let him control the match. When the match is in his hands, he's one of the best players in the world. 

Q. How will you stay away from that backhand?
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, I mean, I'll go there. If he's hitting winners off that side, too good. 

Q. How permanent would it be with Lleyton? Week‑to‑week, month‑to‑month? 
NICK KYRGIOS: I have no idea. 

Q. How much does that decision indicate how serious you are about the Davis Cup? That's obviously going to help in the Davis Cup semifinal. 
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, that's massive. We all have a really good friendship. Lleyton's, he's probably the person I most respect. When he's hopefully going to one day take over the captaincy, I'll (indiscernible). 
Hopefully we can get a good result. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT