AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2016
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You had some great memories here last year.  Talk about how you feel coming back, what kind of memories pop up.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, obviously last year I had a really good run.  I just remember it being a really rollercoaster couple of weeks.   
When I lost against Andy, it almost felt like I was exhausted, mentally and physically drained.   
Coming back this year, I feel like I've grown, physically made a lot of improvements.  I feel as if I'm ready for whatever comes.   
 Q.  Does it feel comfortable coming here now with the status you have?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I feel as if I'm more relaxed this year.  Coming around, I've got a lot more confidence in my game.  I feel a lot more comfortable playing in front of the crowd this year.  I'm definitely playing a lot better.   
 Q.  How is your foot doing after the Kooyong issues?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, obviously a little bit of a niggle.  I didn't want to pull out too early in Kooyong.  David wanted to have some match practice.  I thought we could play a set and a little bit.  Obviously, I didn't want to hinder my preparations going into the Australian Open.   
Yeah, it's feeling good.  Had a lot of treatment on it.   
 Q.  Talk about your first-round opponent.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I played him last year in Portugal.  I won in a tight three-set battle.  He's more than capable of producing some really good tennis.  He's had a couple really good wins in Kooyong.   
I know he's going to come out there and compete for every point.  He's a great competitor.  I know what kind of style of tennis I need to play to win.   
It's going to be a very exciting match.   
 Q.  Can you recall your first memory of Lleyton?  
NICK KYRGIOS: To be honest, as a kid, I didn't watch too much tennis.  Just the memories I have of Lleyton that I remember are watching him on the sidelines of Davis Cup really.  I remember me and Thanasi, we were watching him versus ^  Coria in Davis Cup.  That was one of the funniest matches ever.  He got so pumped and so amped.   
That's why it's one such a sad time, because one of the greatest competitors of all time is leaving our sport.   
 Q.  Are you expecting to play on Rod Laver a bit more this year or are you not fazed at all?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I'm not fazed at all.  All the courts have the same dimensions.  Obviously Rod Laver is one of the greatest courts.  But to be honest, I don't mind.  I really like Hisense.  I love Margaret Court.  The show courts are great.  I played a lot of ITFs and Nationals on the outside courts.  I'm comfortable wherever I play.   
 Q.  If time allows it, will you go and watch Lleyton's match?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, definitely.  He's playing another Aussie.  It's always going to be a little bit fun to watch.  It's going to be a tough match.   
If I've got time, I might duck out there and watch a little bit of it.   
 Q.  Do you have a prediction for that match?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It's hard say.  Ducks has always played well here.  He loves playing in front of the Australian crowd.  Lleyton, it's his last-ever tournament.  He's going to be determined to give absolutely everything in the tank.  I think the crowd might get behind him.  But it's going to be an exciting match.   
 Q.  Is playing in Australia for you like a whole different animal?  Are you able to neutralize that factor?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, there's definitely a little bit more expectation.  The crowd definitely expects any Aussie to play their best tennis here.  That's fair enough.  I think every Aussie should step up here and try their absolute hardest to bring the best out of themselves.   
In all honesty, it's just another tournament.  If you lose first round, there's 50, 60 other events you can play in the year, perform, turn that bad week into a good week.   
 Q.  You played at that Fast Four event on Monday in Sydney.  There are no lines judges.  Can you imagine a pro match relying on the Hawkeye?  Do you think that would ever work?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Obviously only having three wouldn't work.  I think some players might start making the court a bit smaller.   
Yeah, I mean, that was a lot of fun.  But I don't think guys like Roger, Rafa and Novak, people would forget to call their own balls.  We're all so used to having line kids now.  It would be difficult.   
 Q.  There are many kids in the players' restaurant nowadays.  Have you noticed that?  Do you feel all of a sudden there's this big generation gap?  Is that strange there's a lot of families around?  
NICK KYRGIOS: To be honest, I haven't noticed it.  I've noticed there's definitely a lot more young players around the players' cafe now.  But that's tennis, I guess.  The new generation is coming.  There's a lot of great players in qualifying and main draw that are teenagers or early 20s.  So I guess it's a pretty exciting time for tennis.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT