SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. KYRGIOS/A. Haider‑Maurer  
6‑3, 6‑2  
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was a bit crazy. The cameramen were talking in the middle of the point. It just wasn't as professional as I thought it was going to be out there.   
   
 Q. Did you handle it as well as you would have liked?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah. I mean, I just didn't think it was fair on any of us. He was trying to serve. You know, they were talking in the middle of the points. I was just expecting a lot more obviously from a Masters event.   
But it is what it is. You know, I thought I dealt with the circumstances pretty well. It was tough conditions out there. It was really fast. A lot different to any of the courts I hit on yesterday.   
So, you know, I thought I served really well, and I just got the job done.   
   
 Q. You seem to get more distracted than some of the other players. I don't know if it's experience. They seem to be able to block that stuff out. Is that something you hope to accomplish in the future or work on?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, definitely. You're not going to see Roger or Rafa or any of those guys playing on a court like that, though. They're always playing on center court where things usually go pretty smoothly. They're not going to have the cameraman talking in the middle of the point on center court.   
Definitely those guys are more mature, definitely deal with it a bit better than I do at this stage.  
   
 Q. The cameraman talking, did you ask the umpire to deal with that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah. I told the umpire a couple times, Are you going to tell him to be quiet during the points? He did. He kept doing it. I guess the umpire told him to get off the court. It was sorted.   
I don't think you can be having that, you know, at a Masters event.   
   
 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the match and in general how you felt despite all that other stuff, how you played? I know it's your debut here, as well.   
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I wasn't feeling great this morning during my warmup. You know, I thought I served well throughout the whole match today. And, you know, it was tough conditions. It was fast. You know, he wasn't making too many balls, so I wasn't getting much rhythm.   
But I thought I just got the job done. I just went on the practice court then and hit for another hour just to get some rhythm just to prepare for my next match.  
   
 Q. One of the commentators seem to think you were also unhappy about the ball kids. Is that correct?   
NICK KYRGIOS: I wasn't unhappy. It's just obviously they're not‑‑ I guess they're just amateur ball kids. They've just been picked. You can't be too hard on them.   
It was tough. There was a lot of stuff going on out there today. It almost felt like I was playing, you know, a lower‑level event.   
You know, I'm not going to complain too much about it. It was fine really. It was fine.  
   
 Q. You're not going to bring it up with the organizers or anything?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not at all. Not at all.  
   
 Q. For those of us that haven't seen you since New York, what is the coaching situation like, the advisory situation?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I don't have a coach at the moment. Nothing's changed there. I'm definitely looking. But at the same time I think I've been playing some really good tennis. When I went home after New York, I just decided I was going to put a lot of work in. I was on the practice court every day, three, four hours, just pushing myself.   
I know what I need to get better at in my game. I don't think a coach is necessary right now. I don't think there's any rush to get one.   
The last few weeks have been really good. I think I've played some good tennis. I think I'm going okay at the moment.  
   
 Q. When you work hard at home, on the practice court, who are you working with?  
NICK KYRGIOS: There's a lot of hitting partners where I come from in Australia, in Canberra. There's a lot of guys I used to train with. I also fly some guys down from Melbourne, as well, if they just want to have a training week with me.   
I think I take pretty good initiative when I'm on the practice court. I know what to work on. I just got to have a bit more discipline, I feel. I'm pretty keen just to play points all the time. I have to work on my volleys, coming in, all that sort of stuff.   
   
 Q. Given the suspended sentence that's hanging over you at the moment, how is that impacting on you when you're on court at the moment?  
NICK KYRGIOS: To be honest, I'm not thinking about it too much. I know it's there. But, you know, I'm still showing a lot of emotion.   
I feel as if it's helped me a little bit, everything that's happened in the last couple months. I feel like I've definitely picked up my act a little bit. But I'm playing well and I'm enjoying myself, so that's what matters.  
   
 Q. You talked about what you did physically during that period when you were in Glasgow. Did you feel emotionally you needed a break? You've played well since you came back.   
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I think that was key. I think it was the best decision for myself to not go to Glasgow. But at the same time I think we got great depth in our team now that, you know, we can afford to have one guy not playing here or there.   
I thought our guys did great over there. They competed really well. It came down to a couple points literally. I was proud of their efforts.   
I definitely needed to go home, just rest up, train hard, put the work in again. I think it's paying off now in the Asian swing.  
   
 Q. You say you're not in a rush to appoint anybody. Can you see yourself going long‑term without a coach?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Possibly. I think I'm the kind of guy I think I know what I have to do. It's actually doing it. You know, that's just getting up and practicing and stuff like that. I tend to just sometimes not do any of that stuff.   
But I think I just need more someone to just guide me through, you know, organizing practices and stuff like that. I mean, I think moving forward the best decision for me is to definitely find that person who can maybe help me get my game better.   
   
 Q. But are you saying that person would be a coach in the conventional sense or is it someone who is more going to organize your life for you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I'm not sure yet. That's what I'm still trying to figure out. Whether it's a past great, or whether it's a person that's just played at a decent level, I'm not too sure yet. I'll still thinking it through.  
   
 Q. Can you talk a little bit about your next match, playing Nishikori.   
NICK KYRGIOS: Obviously Kei, he's one of the best players in the world right now. He's got unbelievable returns. He's a great athlete. He's playing well. So I know what I have to do. At the same time I'm going to go out there and enjoy the experience. That's why you play the game. You play the game to play these top guys. I'm just going to go out there and just enjoy it.  
   
 Q. In terms of the mutual agreement to skip Davis Cup last month, was there anything about the tie that you thought best to avoid or was it purely you needed a rest?   
NICK KYRGIOS: Sorry?   
   
 Q. Was it because you thought anything in the tie you thought was best to avoid or was it just that you needed to rest?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I had the talk with Wally in New York before the tie, that we both thought it was the best thing for me to miss the tie. Obviously there was a lot going on.   
If I went there, I definitely would have competed and done my absolute best. But I was just feeling it mentally. You know, there was a lot going on.   
I think, I mean, you know our Davis Cup team in the future is going to be pretty good. I feel as though myself, Thanasi, Bernard, we're young. We are only going to get better. I feel there's no rush right now.  
   
 Q. Can you tell us who you practiced with after the match?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I practiced with Bernard.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT