COUPE ROGERS
August 13, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ISNER/N. Kyrgios
  7‑5, 6‑3 
   
 Q. What did you think of the crowd reaction towards you throughout the match today?   
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, it wasn't too bad. It was something I was sort of expecting.   
But, you know, I'm not going to take any credit away from John. I thought he served unbelievable again. He served really well against me in Madrid earlier in the year. That's the best part of his game. He was just too good today.   
   
 Q. I know you made an apology on your Facebook page. Could you come back on what happened last night.   
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, it's all cleared now. Obviously I apologized in public and privately as well. I've been fined. So everything is sort of put to bed now. I thought we could move on from it.  
   
 Q. Are you afraid that more sanctions could be levied on you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No.   
   
 Q. Why?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't think they should be.   
   
 Q. How tough has the last 24 hours been for you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It's been tough. I wouldn't say it's been the toughest thing that's happened. I got some sleep last night. But obviously getting back late from my match. I thought I pulled up all right. I felt good today out there physically. I just got outplayed.   
   
 Q. It seemed like a heartfelt apology on Facebook and Twitter. I don't sense the same right now at this moment. You were very emotional and very honest about it. It seems like in this moment as a person using words, it's not coming as easily. Is that a fair assessment?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, because I just lost.  
   
 Q. Is that entirely what it is? Would you deal with it again or do you want to put it to bed in terms of talking about it again? Is it over for you?   
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, yeah.   
   
 Q. Reaction from home in Australia, pro and con?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, obviously a lot of comments back home. I can't really control that. So, yeah, it's a bit of both.   
   
 Q. Can I ask about the private apology you mentioned that you gave Stan, how that was received by Stan?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It was interesting. Obviously he saw me in the corridor yesterday. He came up to me, as you know he would. I wasn't surprised.   
I told him I was sorry. Obviously he was angry. So I just had to deal with it. Something I had to deal with. Hopefully we can just put it behind.   
   
 Q. Are you afraid that incidents like what happened last night may have a backlash and consequences with the other players on the tour?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT