ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. MURRAY/N. Kyrgios6-4, 6-2, 6-3THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. You have beaten Federer and Nadal.  Haven't taken a set off Murray in three meetings.  What's the difference for you?  What's the problem?NICK KYRGIOS: Well, Murray, I think he's one of the best defenders of the game at the moment.  Yeah, obviously matchup is key thing in tennis, but today I wasn't near 100%.  Not to take anything from him.  He played unbelievable.  I don't think he served well, but he made a lot of returns and he just does what he does best:  that's make a lot of balls and mix up the game.  He was too good.Q. What's the status with the elbow?  Is that what you're referring to?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  It's surprising, really.  I have done so much and it's pretty heartbreaking going out there and something like that holding you back.Q. Looking forward, do you know what the situation is right now?NICK KYRGIOS: Not at the moment.  I am entered in a couple of tournaments, but I will do everything I can obviously to get ready for Wimbledon.  That's the next big one.  I think that's my best chance to win a Grand Slam.  Yeah.Q. I heard you say out there you couldn't really serve.  How bad is it?  What exactly is the problem?NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I don't know what the problem is, but you guys can see for yourselves on the stats I'm not serving anywhere near the pace I usually serve. Yeah, it's heartbreaking, really.Q. Was there a point where you thought about pulling out during just before the third set?  Must have been pretty tough to carry on.NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  Running through your mind, but, you know, it's an opportunity to play third round at Roland Garros against Andy Murray.  You know, I'm just gonna soak up the whole experience, I guess.Q. Has this be a problem that's dogged you for quite a while?  I seem to remember reading about elbow issues in the past.NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's hung around for a little bit.Q. Was part of the reason why you didn't quit today - I know you have a lot of respect for Andy - but was that a factor?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I've got a lot of respect for Andy.  He's only done good things for me and helped me out.  I want all the best for him.  I think he can do well this week.  He's definitely got the game and he can do well.Q. You need rest?  Is that what you need, basically?  Might have to pull out the these tournaments?NICK KYRGIOS: I think so.  I don't know what I have to do at the moment.  I only just got off the court 20 minutes ago.  I'm going to sit down with my team and reassess.Q. Is there any sort of noticeable difference playing Andy on clay as opposed to hard courts?  How was it for you?NICK KYRGIOS: I felt a bit more comfortable today out on the clay.  I thought especially from the back of the court I felt more in charge. Rather when I played him on hard court, I think hard court probably suits his game a little bit better.  He plays great on clay.  He's been having a great clay court season. Today I felt pretty good from the back of the court.  I felt like I was winning most of the rallies, almost. Yeah, I mean, obviously my serving just wasn't there.Q. Apart from Queen's, what else have you entered?  What other tournament?NICK KYRGIOS: I was planning to play 's-Hertogenbosch next week and Queen's and then Wimbledon.Q. I know you and Thanasi know Andy really well.  Is there anything you see in his game that's different or better that you think he's picked up?NICK KYRGIOS: He's a freak athlete.  You know, he's strong.  I think that's how he has his advantage when he plays.  He gets to so many balls, mixes up well, great feel and great slice.  He can get rhythm on serve and return.  He's got many things that are good. I mean, he's won Grand Slams, so...Q. Despite being heartbreaking, you clearly managed to have fun out there, as well.  How important was that, that you actually had fun despite the fact you were hampered?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I think it was a couple of cool points out there, couple of highlights, I guess. I didn't play bad, you know.  I played really well from the back.  I thought I moved well. It's tough when the main part of your game is not on the way you -- it's won me matches before.  It's pretty much my main strength and it's not there.  It's tough to play.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT