WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/N. Kyrgios
  7‑5, 6‑1, 6‑7, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   How do you assess your serving today?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Not great.   I struggled to find some rhythm in the first couple sets.   I think that really hurt me.   Obviously he's playing some great tennis.   He beat Dimitrov in straight sets.   He's been pretty comfortable on the grass.   
I only really started finding my rhythm in the third and fourth sets.   Those are the sets that kept me in the match, I guess.   
   
 Q.   Would it be fair to say you looked like you were having far more fun in the doubles than the singles?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I guess.   I think everyone has a bit more fun in the doubles.   For me, I don't take it as seriously as my singles.   
It completely changed my day around today playing with Madison.   She's awesome.   I had so much fun out there, which is really good.  
   
 Q.   What is your overriding emotion to be out of Wimbledon?   Obviously you had a big opportunity.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, it hurts.   You never want to go out of a Grand Slam.   I feel like I definitely could have done better.   
But saying that, I think Richard's playing some really, really good tennis.   So, you know, I mean, it's been an emotional couple of weeks as well, so...   
It's been okay.   
   
 Q.   In the third set, you were hugging the ball boy.   What happened there?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   I just felt like a hug, I guess.   Everyone now and then wants a hug.   
   
 Q.   Did he want a hug?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I thought he embraced me a bit.  
   
 Q.   A subject from the second set.   It seemed to us you stopped trying for a game.   You weren't returning shots.   You weren't going for the shots.   Can you explain what happened, in your words?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I mean, today, there was a lot of ups and downs.   Obviously, you know, it was a tough, tough time, especially when, you know, he's not missing any balls.   I'm getting frustrated myself.   I feel as if I'm playing not how I should be playing.   I'm angry at myself.   
Obviously I wasn't really happy with the way I was performing out there.   I obviously lacked a bit of energy.   
I thought I responded well, though, to even come back and won the third set.   Obviously 6‑4 in the fourth set serving.   Yeah, I mean...   
   
 Q.   So you're not denying that, that you stopped for that game?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Denying what?   
   
 Q.   You're denying that you stopped playing that game?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I kept playing.   
   
 Q.   For that moment, you weren't returning.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   And that's coming from you?   That's your opinion.   
THE MODERATOR:   Next question.   
   
 Q.   I was going to ask you about the same moment.   Like what happened after that code violation?   What happened in the next game?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Just frustration.   I mean, it's tough out there.   You know, I don't really know what else to say.   
You know, I'm not perfect out there.   I'm going to have ups and downs.   That's the way you respond from that.   I think it takes some serious balls to respond the way I did.   
   
 Q.   Did the crowd misjudge you when they started booing?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, and then I started playing well and they started cheering.   
Did you hear that, too?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   That's okay.   
   
 Q.   It's rare to hear that at Wimbledon.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Okay.   
   
 Q.   Can you give a proper explanation why you didn't return those serves?   Looked like you were tanking the set.   A proper explanation, please.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   What's the question?   
   
 Q.   Looked like you weren't returning the serves.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Do you want to try to return Richard Gasquet's serve?   I'll give you the racquet and we'll see how many times you can return his serve also.   
   
 Q.   You're a professional tennis player.   I'm not.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Okay.   He served too good.  
   
 Q.   So you didn't even try to return.   You walked away on a couple occasions.   
THE MODERATOR:   We're going to take two questions at a time.   
   
 Q.   A proper explanation as to why you didn't return the serve.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   How many aces did he hit that game?   One?   That game, did he hit one ace?   
   
 Q.   Is that an explanation?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Did he hit one ace?   I'm asking you the question.   
   
 Q.   I don't know.   
THE MODERATOR:   The lady over in the corner.   
   
 Q.   Nick, do you want to deny it?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   No.   
   
 Q.   You don't want to deny it, deny the accusation?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Deny what?   
   
 Q.   The accusation being put forward that you didn't try that game in the second set.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   No, of course, I tried.   
   
 Q.   That game you're saying you tried?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   He hit serve past me as an ace.   That's too good.   That's too good.   
   
 Q.   It looked like you didn't move?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I did move.   
THE MODERATOR:   Can I just say, I said at the start, we're going to do hands up and take two questions per person.   It's going to be very difficult to organize this for 15 minutes if everybody keeps asking a number of questions.   
I'd like to let the lady here ask the next question.   Thank you very much for your respect to the press conference.   
   
 Q.   What do you take out of this tournament?   You came back here, having made the quarterfinals last year.   Even now, what do you take out of this tournament experience‑wise, lessons learned?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I mean, I don't take much out of it.   I expected more out of myself.   I feel like I've let people down.   It's tough.   
   
 Q.   How much of an emotional toll, if any, did Bernie's situation affect you today?   Was that playing on your mind at all?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Not so much.   I Bernard yesterday.   We're obviously good friends off the court.   Yeah, that wasn't playing on my mind too much.   
   
 Q.   Are you concerned you could get fined at all for the instance that people have been asking you about?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   It's an opinion, I guess.   If they decide to fine me, they can fine me.   
   
 Q.   You spoke to the umpire afterwards, didn't you?   You sort of suggested you were taking your socks off, is that right?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Oh, I mean, that was just funny, I thought.   
   
 Q.   Do you think code violations should be changed around swearing?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   No.  
   
 Q.   You think they're fair?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Did you ask him if you could change socks?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I asked him if I could change socks.   
He said, Maybe you should tell me at the next change of ends.   
I said, I'm taking off one pair of socks.   No big deal.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you were treated unfairly at any point in the match by the officials?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   No.   
   
 Q.   What was the one thing you were after that hurt you?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Serve.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about this idea that you're kind of the bad boy of tennis?   Is that how you see yourself?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Not at all, to be honest.   Just 'cause I show emotion out on the court, I'm bad.   So, whatever.   
   
 Q.   Now that Wimbledon is over, do you think you might explore your coaching options?   Got anybody in mind?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   No.   
   
 Q.   Correct me if I'm wrong, but I seemed to hear you shout, 'External bullshit' as well when you were playing.   Can you explain what that means?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   What do you think it means?   
   
 Q.   I know what bullshit is, but I don't understand the external part of it.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   If you had to take one guess, what do you think?   
   
 Q.   I have no idea.   That's why I'm asking you.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   There's a lot of things going on at the moment that aren't focusing on actual tennis.   There's just a lot of stuff going on.   
You're a smart guy.   You should know that.   
   
 Q.   Purely an innocent question.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Okay.   
   
 Q.   On Madison, what was it like playing with her?   What do you see from her in this tournament?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think she's an extraordinary player.   She's obviously young.   She has all the tools to become a Grand Slam champion.   I think this is a great opportunity.   She's.  
Probably the favorite part of my day at the moment.  
   
 Q.   Do you see any of yourself in her, the confidence you have?   Do you see similarities between the two of you?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   She's got a good serve.   She plays big.   She's got a lot of confidence in herself.   
She can get a little nervous at times.   I'd say that's normal.   I think she's going to have a really good career.   
   
 Q.   How quickly can you get to Darwin?   Are there any injury or health issues for you at the moment?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I don't know exactly when Darwin starts.   I'm sure I'll create some sort of plan.   I'm feeling okay at the moment.   Obviously a couple niggles here and there, but yeah.   
   
 Q.   If you could sum up your day in one word, what would it be?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   (Laughter).   
   
 Q.   Keep it clean.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Disappointing, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Sorry to get back to the external issues.   Is that referring to the media or just the noise around the tournament?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Just a lot of things going on.   
   
 Q.   With you personally?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   You don't need to know about 'em.   
   
 Q.   What's next for you?   Are you going to take a break or back straight into training?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I don't even think about training.   
Obviously Davis Cup is around the corner.   I got to get prepared for that at the moment.   
   
 Q.   How do you think Bernie will react?   Mentally disappointed to be banned from the Davis Cup tie.   Do you think he'll react positively and bounce back?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think he will.   You know, he's still a kid, as well.   
He's been a good, good friend for me.   He's always been there for me, as well.   
I mean, personally knowing him, he's probably going to bounce back.   He's seriously a harmless kid.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're misunderstood?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Why exactly do you feel you're misunderstood?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   With what you write about me.  
   
 Q.   Do you see this as a huge opportunity to win the Davis Cup this year?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yes, definitely.   I think having Groth, as well as Thanasi is playing some good tennis as well.   It's unfortunate not to have Bernard.   Obviously with Lleyton there as well.   We have a lot of depth.   With Duckworth as well.   
We have a good coach there, as well.   I think we can go far.   
   
 Q.   Do you think with Bernie, the penalty was fair?   Do you think he should have been stood down?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Uhm, no, I don't think so.   
   
 Q.   Why is that?   You think it's too harsh?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Well, I mean, I think the ultimate goal is to win the Davis Cup.   That's why we're playing it.   I mean, is it not?   And he's Australia's No.1.   I think out of all the players, he's the best on grass court that we have.   
So, yeah, I mean, I'm sure we could put him in.   
   
 Q.   If you say we're misunderstood about you, what should we be writing about you instead?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Even if I tell you what to write, you're not going to write it.   
   
 Q.   Will you go to the US Open?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I'm not thinking about that right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT