AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. KYRGIOS/M. Jaziri6-3, 7-6, 6-1An interview with:NICK KYRGIOSTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Did you feel there was a lot of improvement between the second and third round?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was a completely different matchup.  You know, Malek is pretty crafty from the back.  Has a really good slice backhand.  I knew I had to be patient.  Karlovic is completely different.  Not many rallies.  Stop and start.  Yeah, I was really happy with my performance today.Q. What goes through your head when you saw the result with Roger?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I wasn't like really surprised.  I knew Seppi is capable of playing that sort of tennis, beat some of the top guys.  I don't think Roger played too bad at all.  It was a tough match.  Obviously I'd rather play Seppi than Federer, of course.  But, you know, I know it's going to be a really tough match in a couple days.  I'm just going to do everything I can now to prepare.  I played him once at US Open.  That was a really, really tough match.  I probably played the best tennis I played in my life.  I need to be ready again.Q. Are you expecting anything different from what he threw at you in New York?NICK KYRGIOS: I served really well in New York.  I have obviously got to be serving top notch to give myself a chance.  In that match I was really solid from the back and I was playing aggressive.  I think he knows what to expect.  I know what's coming, as well.  I think it's going to be a fun match.Q. What is the state of the back?NICK KYRGIOS: Obviously tightened up a little bit in the third set.  I thought it was smart to get some treatment on it.  Obviously I got a great team that's managing that.  It's pulling up pretty well.Q. You don't think it impeded you during play?NICK KYRGIOS: No.  It definitely does affect me when I'm out there.  I'm definitely not moving as well as I'd like to be.  I'm obviously getting by, but I don't think I'm moving 100% to my ability.  That's obviously what it's hindering as well.  Right now I'm happy with where it is.  There was a couple weeks ago I wasn't sure I'd be playing.  I'm just happy where it's at.Q. You got a good team looking after that, but what are you actually doing?NICK KYRGIOS: A lot of massage, physio.  I got in the hot and cold showers today.  Doing little things like that.  Obviously getting rest.  Gets better with rest.  Getting good sleep.  Just all the professional things.Q. How painful is it?  Is it painful when you go back home or just on court when you feel it?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's pretty painful.  There's worser things in the world.  Sometimes I can feel it when I walk; when I sit down it's there.  But I'm not going to complain about it.  I mean, I'm in the fourth round of the Australian Open.  Let's be happy right now.Q. It's obviously the first time for him to be at this stage.  What were your thoughts on his game and his level?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he had a really tough match against Roger-Vasselin the round before.  He hasn't played too many matches in a row at a Grand Slam that he's had to back up.  I knew if I stuck to my guns, stayed composed, he would show some signs of some physical drops out there.  I think he started struggling a little bit physically towards the third set.  Obviously called the trainer and they were working on him during the changeover.Q. Was there a little part of you that was hoping it would be Roger in the fourth round?NICK KYRGIOS: There was a little part of me.  I was actually thinking a bit last night.  I had a tough match last night.  It's hard not to think about playing possibly the greatest of all time.  Everyone wants to play Roger.  I can only dream about what Seppi is feeling right now to beat him in four sets on Rod Laver.  That's massive for him.  But I get to play another great guy that's been on tour for a long, long time.Q. Have you had Mohammed as the central chair umpire before?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  He's definitely one of the funnier guys.  When it's a tight situation, he's always smiling.  It obviously loosens you up there a little bit.  I thought it was funny when he made that overrule.  That was one of the classic ones of all time, I reckon.Q. When your opponent takes an injury timeout, do you have a look across to see where it is so you are maybe able to exploit it on the court?NICK KYRGIOS: Not so much.  I know if he's calling an injury timeout -- it's a physical game, everyone is feeling something physical.  If he's getting some medical work, I don't really look and analyze where it is.  I stay focused and concentrate on my game.Q. You obviously copped a bit of grief in the post-match interview.  How much do you think about the way you're perceived?NICK KYRGIOS: Everyone is going to have their own opinions.  I didn't think it was too bad.  I just answered the question.  It's in the past now.  All I could do was just get ready for my next match.  I showed I wasn't too fussed about it and got the job done.Q. And chance of having a crack at Rod Laver Arena?NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.  I don't mind.  I'll request Court 20.  I don't mind.  I don't mind.Q. You seem to be in a much happier mood than Bernard was when he was in that chair a little bit ago.  He had a bit of a go at Sam Groth, the way he played, saying he didn't play tennis.  It was just serve-volley.  Do you think for Bernard to say something like that about a compatriot, is that fair?NICK KYRGIOS: At the end of the day we're all competitors, I guess.  Sam has got the style of tennis where he has got to serve and volley a lot.  I guess Bernard has to accept that.  Not everyone is as talented as he is.  He's one of the most talented guys I've ever seen to step on a tennis court.  I think their games contrast.  I don't know why he would be complaining.  He had a comfortable win in straight sets.  They both can play.  They're both playing well.  I didn't really see too much of the match.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT