MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2015
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. KYRGIOS/R. Federer
  6‑7, 7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You told us in Wimbledon that Federer was your big childhood hero.   How was it to play against him for the first time and to win?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, it was exciting.   Obviously last night it was a bit tough to get some sleep knowing that I was going out there.   But before the match I didn't feel nervous or anything like that.   I was just excited to get out to the court.   
I've been playing well recently on the clay, so I knew I had a good chance to go out there and do well.   I stuck to my game and served well and I got the win.   
   
 Q.   What is it about the big stage that brings out the best of you?   Great result at Wimbledon and now here.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   I guess that's why you play the game, to play on these big courts against these big players.   He's the greatest of all‑time, no doubt.  
When you're growing up and playing and watching these guys, you want to go out there.   That's one thing I think about every time I step out against one of these guys on a court like that.  
   
 Q.   People talk about you playing like you have nothing to lose.   In the third set deep in the tiebreak, is that how it feels?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Um, well, I was definitely thinking about the finish line, which is probably not the greatest thing, especially against Federer.   He's going to take advantage of that.   
But I thought as I was saving match points and he was saving match points, just have to go through your routine and pick a spot on your return, and try and do whatever you can.  
Probably had plenty to lose out there.   You been out there three hours.   You don't want to lose 7‑6 in the third.   Bit of luck as well.   It was a good match.  
   
 Q.   When I spoke to you yesterday you said Federer was in your eyes the greatest of all time.   With that in mind, how does this rank against your win against Nadal last year at Wimbledon?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, this is my best win.   He's proven that he us best.   He can play on any surface.   Obviously the leading Grand Slam winner.   
Done so much for the sport as well.   It definitely ranks as one of my best wins.   
   
 Q.   Roger said in his press conference that he struggled to return your first serve today.   Do you feel that was a key in your victory?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   What did he say?   
   
 Q.   He said he struggled with your first serve.   Would you say that was your main weapon today?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, definitely my serve is my weapon.   When I'm serving well and I feel like I got a rhythm on my serve, I think it's tough for anyone to sort of find a rhythm out there.   Even against Roger I thought I served well.   
You know, especially in the second and third set I raised.   First set I didn't serve bad, but he took advantage of a couple bad points.  
Yeah, I think that was the key today.   
   
 Q.   After last week and this win, I guess your confidence on clay is going up now.   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I mean, I knew that I could play on clay from the start.   I think we've got a good crop of guys from Australia that can start doing some damage on the dirt.   Obviously Thanasi, Sam Groth, Duckworth, guys like that that have good serves and move well.  
I think Australian tennis is only getting better on the clay.   
   
 Q.   You're kind of a showman out there.   Today you handed a ball to one of the ball girls.   How do you keep so calm and not nervous on the big stages?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   I guess nothing to be nervousabout really.   Just another tennis match.   It's another chance to have some fun and play the sport that you put so many hours into a day.  
I've been doing it for a long time already and I'm only 20.   I don't see why there is a reason to be nervous.   
   
 Q.   I want to ask you about John Isner next.   Going to be expecting more tiebreaks?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I mean, he's obviously one of the best servers on tour.   I know that.   I mean, you can't really do much when a guy is serving like that.   This is probably the best surface to play him on.   Probably going to slow his serve down a little bit on this surface.  
Not thinking too much about that right now.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned about the future of the Australian tennis.   Do you feel with yourself and Thanasi and Groth that Australian tennis could perhaps reach a high point after many years low since Hewitt's peak?   
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I definitely think we've got a good crop of players now.   Bernard has been playing some really good tennis.   Thanasi as well.   We've got heaps of guys.   I think we have a lot of players around 50 to 250, so I think we all just got to keep pushing each other.   
I think we've shown we can have good results.   Thanasi made fourth round of Indian Wells.   Little results like that can motivate the other guys coming through as well.   
   
 Q.   Will you play in Rome next week?  
NICK KYRGIOS:   No, I don't think so.   I'm just going do everything I can to do recovery‑wise.   I got a good meal.   Need good rest.   Haven't played too many tournaments in a row.  
Last year I had a lot of injuries.   I think I'm still trying to build my body to be able to play tournaments in a row.   
So see how two goes this week.   If I happen to go even deeper, there is no‑‑ I'm not 100% to play next week.  
If I need to pull out, I will.   Obviously I would love to play Rome, you know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT