U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2014
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. ROBREDO/N. Kyrgios3-6, 6-3, 7-6, 6-3An interview with:NICK KYRGIOSTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. How did you feel emotionally during the match?  You started very strong, then had some problems.  You were struggling.  At the end we saw you very tired with the legs.NICK KYRGIOS: It was fine.  You're always going to struggle with something during a five-set match like that, especially playing at such a high level. You know, it's normal.  Every match gets harder, gets physically harder.  I knew I was going to be hurting at some stage.  I just had to push through.Q. Been an amazing past couple months for you.  What would be your enduring memories from the last couple months?NICK KYRGIOS: Just obviously the last two Grand Slams have been really, really good for me.  I'm going to remember every moment.  Gives me so much confidence, so many things that I can work on.  I'm really excited to just go home and work on those things. Yeah, it's more excitement for me, you know, knowing I'm only going to get better, especially if I just keep working hard.Q. It's often said that you learn more from losses than you do from wins.  I appreciate this is very soon after the match.  What do you think you would have learnt from this one?NICK KYRGIOS: I think I just got to get better physically.  I thought from a tennis standpoint I was playing really well.  Obviously you can get a better serve, forehand, backhand.  I think the main thing, just getting stronger, having the ability to keep that level up that I was playing in the first set.Q. It was your first time on Ashe night session.  Looked like you were having fun.  Talk about that experience.NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was awesome.  Having that opportunity to play someone like Tommy on Arthur Ashe is an awesome experience and I enjoyed every moment of it.  The crowd was awesome.  The court was really good.  The conditions were really good.  It was a bit windy the first couple sets.  But the conditions were pretty much perfect the last couple sets.  I've only got positive things to say about that.Q. Not too many 19-year-olds get to play Wimbledon Centre Court and the Arthur Ashe Stadium and Melbourne Park.  How privileged do you feel with something like that?NICK KYRGIOS: Yes, having these opportunities, it's massive.  You gain so much experience from playing on such big courts.  People dream of it.  It takes them a whole career to get on those courts.  For me to play on three of the biggest stadiums in the world, it's massive confidence for me.  I'm so used to that surrounding now, I know what to expect.Q. Why do you think you lost the match this evening when there were so many opportunities?NICK KYRGIOS: It's a good question.  I didn't take opportunities when I had them.  5-1, a couple points here and there, that match wouldn't have slipped out of my hands tonight.Q. You hit a forehand winner at one point and it sounded like you said, Swag.  Talk about that.NICK KYRGIOS: Someone said before the point, You have to get your swag back.  So I just answered his question.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT