U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2014
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. KYRGIOS/A. Seppi6-4, 7-6, 6-4An interview with:NICK KYRGIOSTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Must be pretty pleased to get through to the third round?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's always a good feeling to win another match at a Grand Slam.  Especially new ground for me, never made it past the first round at the US Open main draw.  To have gone to the third round, having beaten some quality opponents, feels good.Q. How is the knee?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's feeling okay now.  A bit sore after when I fell on it.  It's okay now.Q. I know you keep a lid on expectations, which seems to come naturally to you.  You're into the business part of the tournament.  How do you stay grounded and focused?NICK KYRGIOS: Well, you know, I keep playing quality opponents.  I'm playing Tommy Robredo next.  He's probably one of the most experienced players on tour.  He's still playing some really good tennis.  I know I can't get too confident.  I'm going to go out there, have fun, just play my game and see how it goes.Q. You seemed to have a lot of fun out there, at times toying with your opponent.NICK KYRGIOS: I wouldn't say toying.  But I was having fun out there.  The crowd was really good.  I was playing really good, which helps.Q. Robredo has a good record in five sets.  Beat Lleyton in the French Open when Lleyton was the No. 1 seed.  Are you sort of ready to handle that situation?NICK KYRGIOS: You just got to go into the match knowing he's one of the greatest competitors.  You know he's never going to give anything easy. Go out there and know it's never over until you have that match point and take it.  So, yeah.Q. You had treatment on the knee.  What is the situation?  How concerned are you going into the next match?NICK KYRGIOS: It's fine.  Normal routine.Q. Was it just an awkward fall?  You joked to the crowd afterwards.NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.Q. Did you feel it a couple minutes later sitting down?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, just like any other fall, you know.  You're going to feel it a little bit and it's going to go away.Q. Do you feel as though you can go really deep in this tournament?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I think if I play like I played today, you know, just do whatever I can to recover and keep having fun, I guess, I can make an impact, yeah.Q. Are you drawing on anything from a month and a half ago with Wimbledon or are you putting that all out of your mind?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I haven't really thought about that much this week.  It's all in the past.  I'm playing some really good tennis. I'm happy with the way I played tonight.  I haven't played like that in the last couple months.  I was happy with the way I was serving and the way I was hitting it from the ground as well.Q. What are the biggest challenges for a young guy trying to have consistent success?NICK KYRGIOS: I think it's just, you know, doing everything away from the court that's important.  It's such a physical game now.  Doing all the work in the gym, just making sure you're taking care of your body.  Staying out on the court and competing, I think that's the most important thing.Q. How much have you had to upgrade that part of your game in the last two years?NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, a lot.  Two years ago I don't think I was doing a gym session.  Now I'm doing it, you know, every day, or every second day, just to get stronger at something.  Even when you're playing, you're doing some body management here or there.  All that stuff's very important.Q. It's quite evident that your groundstrokes and backcourt play has improved, as well.  You will encounter that against Robredo.  Are you prepared for those long rallies?NICK KYRGIOS: Yes, I'm looking forward to having some exciting rallies with him.  I'm just going to, you know, be the one that's going to be dictating play as much as possible, playing aggressive. I'm going to be ready for Robredo.  He's such a good player.  There's going to be a lot of balls coming back.  I just got to be ready.Q. Did you watch him beat Federer last year?NICK KYRGIOS: I didn't even know he did.Q. He did.NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, that's cool.  That's a good effort, yeah.Q. How fast is this court compared to other hard court tournaments?NICK KYRGIOS: I thought when I played today it was heavy.  I thought it was slow.  There were a lot of long rallies. You know, when it gets hot, it's pretty lively, bouncy and fast.  I experienced a totally different court against Youzhny than I did today.Q. Do you prefer a day or night match against Tommy?NICK KYRGIOS: I wouldn't really mind.  If it was cool, slow it down, have time to play well from the ground.  If it's hot, I think my serve's always going to like that, when it's a bit more lively and faster.  I don't really mind.Q. Do you have any bets going with Bernie who is going to go further this week?NICK KYRGIOS: No, we haven't been talking about that too much.Q. Do you take any pride in being a teenager and succeeding out here against guys who are a lot older?NICK KYRGIOS: No, not really.  I don't really focus on, you know, the difference of age when I'm out there.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT