ROGERS CUP MEN
August 5, 2014
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. KYRGIOS/S. Giraldo
  7‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I know you had some time off after Wimbledon and I am wondering what you did to prepare for your first Masters event here. 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Well, I had a week back at home.   I think that's just important to just relax and catch up with friends, family.   Then I went Melbourne for two weeks and trained there with a couple of juniors there. 
Just doing some gym work just like a little training block to get me prepared for the U.S. swing.

Q.   How did it feel out there today?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, first match back so I knew it was going to be tough.   I came out a bit flat.   Obviously knew it was going to be a tough match. 
I thought I hung in well.   I played the big points pretty well, as well.   I'm relatively happy.

Q.   With the rain delays that go as long as they do, how do you keep yourself mentally into it without actually being in the game, with not even starting yet, with the length that the rain delays went today?
NICK KYRGIOS:   You know, I just chilled it out in the locker room.   I was actually with Bernard just chilling out and just waiting, hanging around.   I mean, you can't really do much.   That's part of the game.   You can't really control it.

Q.   Is that kind of the best remedy just to hang out and kind of keep it loose, keep it easy?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   You know, I think it works for me.   I don't want to be too uptight and too tense about the match.   I just want to stray relaxed.   Yeah.

Q.   You've got another big match coming up.   Considering how well you played in your last really big match, what are you looking for against Murray?
NICK KYRGIOS:   You know, he's a great player, and I'm just going to go out there and just enjoy the experience to get to play another player like that.   I'm just going to go out there, and I will hopefully serve well and keep it on my racquet and do the best I can out there.

Q.   Do you go in with maybe more confidence than you might expect after Wimbledon?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I'm definitely going to go into the match feeling like, you know, I've got a chance and I'm going to get some opportunities.
But, you know, it's going to be one of the toughest matches I have ever played, so I have just got to be ready for it.

Q.   Can you talk about how life has changed for you since Wimbledon off the court and on the court. 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   On the court it's not too different.   You know, obviously a little bit more expectation, but that just comes with the success. 
But off the court it's changed a lot, especially back in Australia.   You get noticed a lot.   A lot of people come for photos and all that kind of stuff. 
Yes, it's changed a lot.

Q.   Todd Woodbridge and a few other Aussie greats have sort of suggested that you almost now have a tiger on your back because people know what you're capable of.   Do you feel there is more pressure when you go onto the court?   And how are you dealing with the different sort of scale of tennis life now?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think, you know, the guys are more aware of me now, and obviously they know what I bring to the court and what to expect, so I think it's going to be tough for the next, you know, next six months or next year.   You know, it's going to be tough.   The guys are going to be wanting to beat me. 
I guess I've just got to keep working hard and bring my best whenever I can.

Q.   You beat Stepanek last year at the French.   The difference between that and the way you were playing then and the way you're playing now with the win over Nadal and this match today, what would you say is different?   What's evolved in your game?
NICK KYRGIOS:   I think mentally I'm a lot better.   I know how to manage my emotions a bit better.   Especially after my Australian Open match this year when I lost in five sets, you know, I have learned so much from that. 
Physically I'm a lot better.   I'm getting better at a lot of things every day.   My serve is a lot better as well.   There are a lot of things I have worked on. 
I took a lot out of that match against Stepanek when I won, because a couple days after I couldn't walk and I lost, so I've learned a lot. 

Q.   Is Thanasi still here?   Was he watching you today? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   He actually messaged me.   He was watching from his hotel room.

Q.   Did you watch him the other day?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   I watched him, yeah.

Q.   What did you think?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, he's a great player and I think he's got a good future ahead.   You know, he's still young.   Just got to be patient with him, I think.

Q.   Following up on some of the changes and the bigger guys noticing you, I know that you were hitting earlier this week with Federer and Djokovic.   I'm assuming that was the first time you hit with them, and I'm wondering how that felt.
NICK KYRGIOS:   I actually had a training week with Federer in Zurich earlier this year, and that was probably the best week of my life.   Just being on court with I think the greatest of all time, I just learnt so much just by watching him.   He didn't even say much. 
I hit with Djokovic last year at the French Open, as well.   So it was not the first time hitting with him, but first or last time, it's exciting every time you go out there with one of those guys.

Q.   Did it feel like they are scouting you at all or does it feel like pressure? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   When I'm hitting with Federer, it's so relaxed now and so much fun.   I love hitting with him. 
With Novak it was actually pretty competitive.   We played a practice set.   He definitely knew what my game was, so, you know, it was a bit more tense with him.   But I love hitting with Roger.

Q.   I saw you tweeted earlier that you got a PS4 here.   Wondering which games it was that you picked up.
NICK KYRGIOS:   I got FIFA, NBA, and Need For Speed.   The other game came with it, but I'm going to buy some more soon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT