WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2014
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. RAONIC/N. Kyrgios
  6/7, 6/2, 6/4, 7/6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   How much did yesterday impact on today?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think it had a pretty big impact.   You know, I was struggling physically about halfway through the second set.   I was feeling sore in a couple places. 
But I'm not going to take any credit away from him.   He served unbelievable.   You know, I thought I came out strong on his first return game.   I made him earn that. 
All the other service games it looked like he was in such a rhythm that I just couldn't do anything out there. 

Q.   Did you get an appreciation for how Rafa must have felt yesterday?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, it was extraordinary.   I woke up this morning and it had sunk in.   It was such a great achievement.   That's something that no one can take away from me.   I'm always going to have that now. 
I drew a lot of confidence out of that.   I thought I played a strong first set today.   I just couldn't maintain that level.   What he brought today was something special, I thought.

Q.   Could you give us an idea what the last 24 hours have been like. 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, it's been really exciting.   It's been a special week for me.   At the same time, it's been so exhausting.   I got nothing left to give. 
You know, that's what Grand Slams do to you.   If I was to go further, I'm going to have to get stronger.   I'm going to have to get so much better in so many areas. 

Q.   What does the past nine days tell you about what you can achieve in the future?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Tells me there's a lot of room for improvement.   But at the same time, there's something special I have that can make it deep into Grand Slams.   I'm doing it at 19. 
I think in the future there's going to be something there that, you know, of course I can go a bit further.

Q.   Are you aware that in terms of public awareness of you, money, the players now are aware of you, that your life is totally changed over the last two days and it will never be the same again?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think I'm pretty aware of that.   I've noticed the change, especially from yesterday to today.   In the first day I was walking around the crowds and no one noticed me at all. 
Then I was walking around the crowds yesterday and this morning and everyone's noticing me. 
So, yeah, I've noticed a change. 

Q.   How do you plan to deal with the pressure that comes with expectation, having made the quarters here? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   I'm just going to do whatever I can.   Do whatever I can that I can control.   Work hard, give great effort.   When I'm back home, I'm going to spend about a week and a half at home now and do a training block in Melbourne.   I'm just going to do whatever I can. 

Q.   What were your plans post Wimbledon coming into the tournament and how much have they changed by what's gone on here?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Well, I've got Newport scheduled next week, in about a week and a half.   That's penciled in.   So, yeah, we'll see how I'm going physically at the moment. 

Q.   When you take yourself back 10 days or so, how do you reflect on what you've achieved throughout this whole period at Wimbledon?
NICK KYRGIOS:   It's been the best couple weeks of my life.   Never did I think that I was ever going to make quarterfinals of Wimbledon and beat Nadal on Centre Court.   It's all happened pretty fast. 
You know, I don't think it's completely sunk in yet, you know, the achievement.   I'm just going to reflect on that the next couple days. 

Q.   There's been talk about you changing coaches and what the future holds for you.   What are your short‑term plans and what is the situation with the coach?
NICK KYRGIOS:   You know, I've had the best week of my life.   He's done a great job there.   I haven't really thought too much about it yet.   Obviously, you know, this week he was my coach. 
Yeah, I haven't thought about it too much at all.   Obviously we'll have some discussions about that with my whole team.   At this stage, there's nothing.

Q.   The crowd seem to love you out there.   Any idea why that might be?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Well, Aussie Fanatics make it really good out there for me to have that spark, have a bit of flair.   I like to interact with the crowd a bit.   When I played Gasquet I was interacting a lot with the crowd.   They loved it.   They were laughing.   I sort of thrive on that sort of atmosphere. 
So hopefully I can keep getting involved with the crowd and hopefully they keep loving it, that sort of stuff. 

Q.   What sort of opportunities now to be top 70, main draw at all the slams, getting into more events.   That's clearly an opening for you, isn't it?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   That was my goal, to be top 100 at the end of the year.   It gives me a chance to have a really good schedule, play some tour events, and don't worry about futures and challengers so much anymore. 
It will be really good, tour events, Grand Slams, Davis Cup.   Give me a bit more clarity on the future. 

Q.   You mentioned yesterday how you've been used to playing in front of small crowds on outside courts.   What difference does it make to your preparations to be playing on show courts, historic courts?
NICK KYRGIOS:   I think it just forces you to give great effort every point.   I know you should be giving great effort every point no matter if you're on outside courts or on Centre Court, but when you're out there it's just a feeling that you can't describe. 
You just want to put on such a show on those big courts that it just brings it out of you.   I thought the way I played yesterday on Centre Court was probably the best tennis I ever played in my life.   I think if I played Rafa somewhere in Europe on the backcourt of a clay court, Court 16, it would be a completely different story, 'cause that stage sort of brings it out of you. 

Q.   Great individual success this week.   How important is it to you now that the other bunch of Australian guys sort of the same age start delivering some significant results along with you?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think it's big.   When I'm back in Australia now and we're all training together I think it's definitely going to be a motivation for them.   In practice usually they beat me.   That's going to give them confidence, you know, to see if I'm doing this well, they can do it as well.   I think it's a massive step.

Q.   If they're beating you in practice, what is it that brings out the best in you in match play?
NICK KYRGIOS:   I don't know.   I can't answer that.

Q.   Will you watch the DVD in the months to come?
NICK KYRGIOS:   No, I'll be watching it over and over again I reckon. 

Q.   Having measured yourself against the best in the world, what are you going to work now?   What have you seen about your game that needs improvement?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Well, if you look at today, I think Milos was far better physically than I was.   He looked fresh by the end of the match.   It was noticeable that I was struggling a little bit. 
I'm going to work on my physical side of things.   I'm just going to get better in many areas.   My serve can improve, forehand, backhand, volleys, transitioning.   I can name millions of things that need to get improved. 

Q.   Did you sleep much last night or were you still playing half volleys through your legs at half past 3:00 in the morning?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I actually did get a bit of sleep last night.   It wasn't easy.   I was so exhausted after yesterday's match.   I was just lying there trying to sleep.   It was hard.   So many thoughts running through my head. 
I was eventually so exhausted that I just fell asleep. 

Q.   Have you got the mental toughness to take you to the next level? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah.   I've definitely got the mental toughness to keep working hard. 

Q.   When Milos was your age he was ranked like 350 in the world.   Now he's in the semifinals.   If you come back here in a couple of years and you've done the work, it's all gone to plan, do you think you've got the game to actually win here?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think I'm capable of doing something like that.   I'm not going to put so much pressure on myself.   I'm just going to do the work, do everything right. 
If my game continues to develop, I think, yeah, I do have a shot. 

Q.   The reaction to yesterday, did the prime minister send you a message or anything big like that?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think I saw a tweet or a Facebook status by him or something like that.   I did briefly see something like that.   That was pretty cool.   Tim Cahill actually wrote to me as well.   So that was pretty cool as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT