U.S. OPEN
August 25, 2014
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. KYRGIOS/M. Youzhny  7-5, 7-6, 2-6, 7-6   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  It was a great way to get things off on this campaign.  Talk about how you feel about the way you played today, the way you fought, came through with a victory.  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was a tough first match playing Youzhny, someone that's played well here in the past and last year making the quarterfinals.  I knew I had to serve well, and I hit 26 aces.  Those are good stats. I was struggling a little bit about the two-and-a-half hour mark, but I knew that if I hung in I would get that second wind where I could start playing good tennis again, and that's what happened in the fourth set.   Q.  There was a lot of long rallies, as well.  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he's solid from the back.  You know, it's his strength.  He likes to mix it up with his slice. I hit my forehand well today.  I was happy with that.   Q.  Is it a way better to get off on a start where you're deeply challenged on the first round and able to fight through it?  Is that a good building block for the fortnight, hopefully fortnight ahead?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I think it's really good, especially from a confidence standpoint.  I had to pull out of Cincinnati.  You know, first match back and getting the win in four sets over a quality player like that, it's a good confidence boost.   Q.  The third set, was that just a matter of hitting a physical wall?  Can you explain a bit of a dip there?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he started playing really well, as well.  You're going to go through patches in a five set match in that heat where you're going to be feeling a little flat.  I bounced back in the fourth set.  Yeah.   Q.  How was the arm?  NICK KYRGIOS: The arm was a little sore, but I've just gotta accept it's not going to change any time soon.  Just got to keep pushing through.  I started doing that towards the end of the fourth set.   Q.  Were you aware at all that you were one code violation away from getting defaulted?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.   Q.  Was that the last one in the start of the fourth set?  The last code violation, the third one that you got, was that early in the fourth set?  NICK KYRGIOS: I can't even remember.   Q.  Was that just a sign of frustration?  You were saying the other day you were feeling the weight of expectations.  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I guess just heat of the moment.  I was frustrated the way I was playing, and, yeah, it was just all that sort of stuff.  It was just an outburst, and hopefully I will be able to control that the next time I play.   Q.  How have things sort of changed for you after Wimbledon, just your own expectations and maybe the pressure you feel in these tournaments?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's gone up a bit.  I'm probably expecting a lot out of myself at these sort of tournaments.  I have to know I'm still young and it's a long journey.  I have to just be patient.  I think it's good to have high expectations, as well.   Q.  How do you think your game will match up against Seppi?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it will be an interesting match.  He's solid on both wings.  He has a good serve, as well. I think I'm going to have to play aggressive and keep the match on my racquet.  It's going to be exciting.   Q.  You're ranked 60th in the world; Seppi probably bit lower than that.  Do you feel as though you belong in that sort of echelon?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.   Q.  What do you think about having a crowd so behind you for a lot of the match?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I was really, really happy with that.  They were chanting, you know, all sorts of things.  It was really good.  It gave me the spark in the fourth set.  I sort of fed off that a bit and it gave me extra energy. I was expecting to throw a couple of come ons.  I think that helps my game.   Q.  Does that also feed into sort of the emotion of the match when you were upset at times, like having all that excitement on the court?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  It definitely helps, you know.  It sort of just keeps you focused and just you start having a bit of fun out there, and, you know, you start playing some really good tennis. I'm really thankful for everyone in the crowd today.   Q.  Can you share with us a moment in your life, early in your life, when you first saw the US Open where you had a rooting interest with a match here at the US Open when you were a kid?  NICK KYRGIOS: No, I don't have one.  I watched Federer and Hewitt this morning.  That's probably the only one I can remember right now (smiling).   Q.  Taking out a seed today add to the excitement?  Hopefully going deep in the draw?  NICK KYRGIOS: I'm not going to look past Seppi at all.  He's a quality player.  It's going to be a tough match.  It's good to get a win over a seed, but I have to just focus on my next match.   Q.  Do you ever think those outbursts of emotion help you in any way?  NICK KYRGIOS: Sometimes, but most of the time probably not.  Yeah.   Q.  Has that been something you've dealt with throughout your career, or is that just characteristic of maybe just playing a top quality player and wanting the best out of yourself?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it just comes from having high expectations most of the time.  I have been an emotional player most of my career.  Maybe I will be able to manage it in the future.  It's a work in progress.  It's something that's always been there.   Q.  Is this something you talk with your coaches about?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, yeah.   Q.  When you consider in a year's time - I mean, you came here as a qualifier year; first US Open - now a year later you come in as a quarterfinalist at Wimbledon.  You talk about the expectations because of that, but it's certainly been a long journey, and roughly 365 days, if you will.  If you could just talk about how far you have come in a year.  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's all happened so fast.  It sort of hasn't sunk in.  It sunk in a little bit, but I'm still pretty amazed how fast it all happened.  Last year I was qualifying, as you said.  I didn't really think -- I knew I had a chance to qualify, but I wasn't really expected to. Qualified there, and now, you know, I'm winning matches in main draw Grand Slams.  It's pretty amazing for me even still.  Yeah.   Q.  How do you like the atmosphere here?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's awesome.  I'm going to get scorched in Melbourne, but it's my favorite Grand Slam (smiling).   Q.  How have things changed for you personally?  More people recognize you now?  NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.   Q.  What's that been like for you?  NICK KYRGIOS: In Australia it's pretty hectic because I'm training in Melbourne, and even in Canberra when I'm down.  Even at these sort of tournaments sort of getting noticed a bit more.  I guess it's something you have to get used to.   Q.  What is it about this one that you like so much?  NICK KYRGIOS: I think it just -- I don't know.  It sort of suits my personality a bit.  I like to, you know, go out -- not go out, but just roam the streets and that sort of stuff.  I like the atmosphere at the tennis courts.  It's always so electric and there are so many people in the crowd.  The crowd today was unreal. You know, you're not going to get that at the French Open or anything like that.  I really like the crowds and just -- as soon as you walk through the gates here it's a really good feeling.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT