AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2014
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. PAIRE/N. Kyrgios
  6‑7, 6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What happened there in the fourth set? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   I honestly started feeling it halfway through the third set.   I always was going to feel it sometime through that match. 
I thought he managed himself better throughout the match and that's why he came out on top. 
It was a really fun night.   It motivates me to get out there again and have another shot.

Q.   How hard is it the way it finished?
NICK KYRGIOS:   The crowd was unbelievable.   Felt sort of like a Davis Cup atmosphere.   I can't thank the fans enough.   Every point they were chanting.   They were going nuts out there, so, you know, that was really good. 
Yeah, it was an honor to be out there. 

Q.   You played two five‑set matches.   It happened both times.   What do you think of that?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I guess it's all a process.   The more matches you play like that, the more experience you get, the more miles you get on your legs. 
Hopefully next time it won't happen.   You can't be certain.   I'll do everything I can.   Work hard and hopefully it won't happen next time.

Q.   What can you do differently?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I thought I took care of my nutrition pretty well.   I did everything on the side of the court that I thought I could do. 
I finished the match and didn't have to retire, so that's confidence in itself as well.   Playing somebody in the top 30 and taking him to five sets is not a bad result either.

Q.   Do you think your shoulder injury might have contributed?
NICK KYRGIOS:   No.   I think I play my best tennis when I'm pretty fresh.   That's the only positive I can really take out of having my shoulder injury in the past couple months. 
But, yeah, I think it held up really well.   I felt good.   I'm really pleased with that, because I was worrying about it before the tournament and it came good.   So, yeah, that's good. 

Q.   What have you been told since you came out?   What's the feedback from your coach?
NICK KYRGIOS:   You know, I gave everything I could.   Me and my coach know that.   That's all you can do. 
Yeah, obviously happy with my effort.   Obviously a bit disappointed we didn't get the win, but that will come in time.   I definitely had opportunities to take the match as well.

Q.   Tell us about being out there in front of that crowd, a soccer‑like crowd. 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, it was actually pretty cool when they started doing the wave and stuff when he called injury timeout and I got involved.   I thought that was really cool. 
When I was feeling it physically I was looking around.   Try to keep going, leave nothing out there.   I thought that's what I did. 

Q.   You seemed to enjoy interacting with the crowd. 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I think that's just my personality a bit, to sort of joke around with the crowd. 
I think I'm not going to ever stop doing that, so yeah.

Q.   Where to from here, beyond Davis Cup? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   I got mixed doubles as well here.   That will be pretty fun.   Hopefully if I'm playing Davis Cup, we'll head to France and do what we have to do there.   I'm not really too sure what my scheduling is after that.   I'm sure we'll have that soon.

Q.   Do you see yourself as a big contender if Bernie doesn't come up?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, I'm just going to always be with the team.   I'll do everything I can to get the win, even if that means not playing, being on the sides.   If I'm called up to play, I'll do my best to get one for the team.

Q.   You do a thing before you serve the ball.   Is that to show how much you love basketball?
NICK KYRGIOS:   I really love basketball.   That's one way I can show it in my tennis game.   I've been doing it for the past year now.   That's something in my game that's never going to go away as well.

Q.   You've reached 10,020 followers tonight.
NICK KYRGIOS:   That's pretty cool.   I haven't looked at my phone.   It's out of battery, so...   I haven't really looked at it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT