AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2014
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. KYRGIOS/B. Becker
  6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑2, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Through to the second round.   You must be extremely happy. 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, obviously every time you get to the second round of a slam it's one of the best days, especially in my early career. 
But it was really good playing in front of my home crowd this time.   I'm pretty excited for the next round as well.   I'm just soaking it in. 
Yeah, it was a really good experience.

Q.   How does it compare to France?
NICK KYRGIOS:   I think this time was a lot better.   My whole family was there, my friends, and just the home support.   Just trying to get a win at the Australian Open.   Just seeing Rusty, Marinko all battle it out.   I was waiting to get my opportunity. 
Especially being injured the last couple months, it was really special, this win.

Q.   How much of an issue was the shoulder today?
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, it pulled up really well.   I thought lasted four pretty tough sets.   Massive improvement from what it has been.   It's holding up well enough I think it will be fine. 

Q.   Getting treatment in the fourth set was just precautionary?
NICK KYRGIOS:   I was feeling it a little bit, but that's normal.   You're always going to sort of carry a bit of a niggle.   I thought it would be smart to get it a bit worked on, yeah.

Q.   No major issue there?
NICK KYRGIOS:   No, not at all.   Not at all. 

Q.   First time in your career going into the second round of this slam.   Mentally how do you approach it? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, well, I know who I'm playing already.   My coach will watch a bit of film.   We'll talk it over.   We'll do whatever we can, whatever we can control to give me the best chance of winning. 
Second time I've been in the second round.   I can draw my experiences from France and do things I didn't do so well there.   I can improve on those for my second round. 

Q.   You outhit Becker by 71 winners to 38 today.   Was that the plan from the start?
NICK KYRGIOS:   My game sort of revolves around being pretty aggressive.   He's a really solid player.   I knew I was going to have to go through him a bit.   I didn't know those stats at all but that's an incredible amount of winners.   Obviously a pretty aggressive‑minded match, yeah. 

Q.   You seemed really pumped up the last game of the fourth set.   Really going for it then? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, it's either you've got to step up or you're going to lose that fourth set.   He's not going to give you anything to sort of get you back in the match. 
So I thought I had to step up and, you know, I played a really good tiebreak.   I thought he didn't play that bad in the tiebreak.   It was a pretty exciting match.   The crowd got me over the line, I thought.

Q.   How much do you take out of twice fighting back after being down a break? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   Yeah, you got all those emotions running through your head.   It's hot out there.   The guy is picking up his game.   You're not playing very well.   There's a lot of things that can throw you off thinking about the fifth set. 
You've just got to sort of stay in the moment, take your chance.   I thought I did really well this that game, in the tiebreak.   I played a pretty flawless tiebreak.   Maybe next time I don't get so lucky and it goes to a fifth set.   It is what it is.   So, yeah. 

Q.   I think it's still 41 degrees outside.   How do you deal with the heat?
NICK KYRGIOS:   I think it suits my game pretty well.   It will suit my serving a lot.   The more aggressive you are, I think it helps a lot. 
Obviously it's affecting everyone out there.   It's pretty tough.   You got to stay hydrated.   You got to be smart with nutrition, as well. 
Yeah, tough conditions out there, for sure.

Q.   What is it like being part of this Australian tennis revival? 
NICK KYRGIOS:   A lot of people are saying the next generation is coming through.   It's pretty exciting for us.   A bit of expectation and pressure.   But we're all a pretty close bunch.   We're pushing each other. 
Having the likes of Lleyton still going out there and competing with the best, Marinko and Bernard, they're setting a good example for us young guys.   We're doing our best to get some results.

Q.   What have you learned from Bernie's journey the last couple years?
NICK KYRGIOS:   He's had a pretty bumpy road but I think he's come a long way.   Playing Davis Cup with him as well you get to know him a bit more.   I did a lot of training with him in the pre‑season.   He's improved a lot.   We did a lot of tough training that I didn't think he could do a couple years ago but now he's doing it. 
He had some great success in Sydney as well, so I'm pretty excited for him as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT