US OPEN
August 29, 2019
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. KYRGIOS/A. Hoang
6-4, 6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How was it to play tonight, the atmosphere with a packed Grandstand?
NICK KYRGIOS: It was fun. I enjoy playing on Grandstand. I think that's maybe my second or third match there. Tonight was tough. He's a young opponent that I don't really know that much of. He played well.
Pretty happy with my performance.
Q. Before the match started, there seemed to be some discussion about your collar, you were asked to see the rule. They never showed you the rule, but you seemed to relent and go on to play. What made you give up that discussion?
NICK KYRGIOS: I think they thought it was a slogan, but it wasn't. It wasn't anything to do with a marketing thing. It was just a design issue.
I think they must have read it wrong. I think they thought it said Just Do It, like the slogan. It was actually Just Do You. I think it was a mix-up.
It's all cleared up now. I can wear that. I can wear the collar up.
Q. They told you this after the match?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yes.
Q. Has the tour asked you at all whether you said you used the wrong words the other day? Have they reached out to you for any further explanation?
NICK KYRGIOS: No.
Q. Do you expect that they might?
NICK KYRGIOS: No.
Q. Have you given a thought to your next opponent, Rublev? A lot of emotion on the court.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he's a very good player. He's a young, fearless player who has been playing really well the last couple weeks. Obviously he had that win over Roger.
He plays big from both sides. He's a great player. He's going to have a great future.
I'm not going to think about it too much. I have some doubles tomorrow. But, I mean, I played him once in Moscow. It was an incredibly tough match. So it's going to be tough, for sure.
Q. Might you summarize what you were talking about with the umpire towards the end of the third set?
NICK KYRGIOS: I did win the game. He called game. My opponent challenged once the umpire called game. I just thought that wasn't right.
Q. Which parts of your game are you pleased with the most so far through the first two matches?
NICK KYRGIOS: I guess I've been serving well, really well of late. I guess just to beat two quality opponents in straight sets has been a bonus. Every time you can play a Grand Slam in the early rounds, get it done in straight sets, it saves a lot of energy and legs, especially when Rublev today got a walkover. I'm pretty happy I got that done in straight sets. Now I can recover.
I'd rather play some doubles tomorrow than practice. I'm looking forward to that. I think it's just good to get off the court quick.
Q. They didn't announce your interview, which is why there's a lot of late-comers.
NICK KYRGIOS: That's okay. I was in here for, like, a minute before you guys came in.
Q. Just to clarify, this thing about the logo, they said you will now be able to show it during your matches on court?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yup. I know.
Q. That's what they now said to you?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yup, yup. I think it was just a misunderstanding of what I said. I think they thought it was a slogan, but it wasn't.
Q. Two 20-year-old Australians in the third round. A nice time for Australian tennis.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, for sure. I mean, de Min, I never expect anything less from him, he's an absolute warrior. He can beat a lot of good players. When I see him progressing through a draw, I know it's a nightmare for anyone who comes across him.
Obviously Popyrin had a pretty good win today. Kukushkin is a savvy veteran. I'm not surprised when those guys win matches at all. They're capable of doing some big things.
Q. Australian No. 1 will get to pick the captain for the ATP Cup next year. Given it any thought, if you are the No. 1, who you would pick? You could actually pick yourself.
NICK KYRGIOS: I most definitely won't pick myself. But, I mean, I've given it some thought. I'm not going to share that with you.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
NICK KYRGIOS: I was actually just hitting. After my practice, she came on court and said, When can we hit?
I said, Whenever you want. Just pick a court, let me know.
I just hit with her.
Q. With the collar, it says Just Do You, right?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.
Q. Did you get that custom made? Was it your idea?
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, it was just like a little bit of a thing I was going to do with Nike, just a little bit of a design type thing.
I mean, yeah, that's it really. I mean, I knew that the supervisor was wrong when I was out there. I mean, but I just folded my collar down.
Q. Roger mentioned he was going to take it easy with his practice. He likes to be fresh for his next match. How do you deal with your practices? Are you practicing every day?
NICK KYRGIOS: I like to have, like, an hour, a pretty solid hour, hit on my days off. I like to feel the ball, make sure I sweat a little bit, make sure I feel like I've prepared well for my next round.
To play doubles at a Grand Slam is a lot of fun, something I can't take for granted. I'm going to go out there tomorrow and I definitely want to win that match. I'm playing with one of my good friends. I'm going to go out there, and I think I can use that, help my serve and volley, can help my returns. I think it keeps tennis fun.
I'm looking forward to that a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT