ROGERS CUP
August 6, 2019
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/N. Kyrgios
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You interacted with a fan last week in Washington who offered you advice on how to serve.  Tonight you interacted with fans.  Is that something we're going to see you doing more during matches?
NICK KYRGIOS: I've been doing that for a while.
Q. How is your body holding up after so many matches in such a short period of time?  How are you feeling?
NICK KYRGIOS: I'm a little bit tired.  Physically I actually feel like I'm okay.  But just a little bit tired.
I mean, not taking away anything from Kyle tonight.  He played well.  He served well.  He didn't really give me any rhythm into the match at all.  He used his forehand well.
Q. It was hard to tell from up top, but what was going on with the towels?  You weren't getting the towels?  What was happening?
NICK KYRGIOS: Towels were fine.
Q. The delay, how did you process that?  Looked like you wanted to keep going before they called the match.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was raining, so we couldn't really keep going.  Then we just came out when it stopped raining.
Q. A few players were asked to comment about your potential this week with your win in Washington.  The thing that came up was, When he's motivated, he can beat anyone.  Do you feel like this is a fair assessment of your level of motivation, there are days where you are, other days where you're not as motivated?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I'm trying to get to a period where I can be consistent and try and bring my game every week, yeah.
Q. How difficult is it after the high in Washington to reset and come here, play that match?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was challenging.  I was actually really looking forward to playing.  But I just got beaten by a better player today.  He left Washington only a couple days ago, as well.  It was tough for him.  But he was just too good today.
Q. Which title would be able to make up the most sacrifice?  Which title means the most for you in the next one year?  Winning the Davis Cup in Australia?  The Olympic title?  Winning at home in the Australian Open?  Wimbledon?
NICK KYRGIOS: I really like team events.  I think winning a Davis Cup title with my team.  ATP Cup or something like that would be pretty cool.
I played with the guys in my team since we were pretty young.  Like Thompson, I played with him since I was about nine.  To win a title like that together would be pretty cool.
Q. Can you tell me how you felt beating Stefanos Tsitsipas in Washington?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was an unbelievable match.  It was a great experience to play him.  We played doubles together.  I felt like we got to know each other a little bit last week.
He's a really good kid.  He's so young, so he's going to do some pretty amazing things in this sport.  But, yeah, our match was awesome.  Could have gone either way.  He could have won easily.  But we're going to play each other a lot more times, I think.
Yeah, I mean, it was definitely one of the funner matches I played.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT