BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2019
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KOHLSCHREIBER/N. Kyrgios   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What's tricky about Philipp's game to you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: He's an incredible competitor.  He knows how to win tennis matches.  I thought he -- I didn't play my best tennis today, but on certain points where I maybe had a little sniff or, like, a little chance to get into the match, he came up with a really good shot to break me in the first set.  He had an unbelievable backhand cross pass, and we played a really long point.   
But he's just tough.  He knows how to win tennis matches.  I have played him twice now, and we have beaten each other once.  Just a tough match.   
 Q.  How do you feel here?  How do you feel in these conditions?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I like playing here.  I have had success here before.  I think the conditions suit my game.  Just couldn't get anything going today.  I didn't really feel comfortable on serve.   
As I said, there was a couple points here or there that could have changed the match, and he played those points well.   
 Q.  After coming off Acapulco and the effort you put in over there, is it difficult to get up for a second-round match over here?  How were you feeling coming into this?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I was feeling good.  I had, like, five days to kind of find my feet in practice and stuff.  Yeah, I don't know.  I don't really know.  I didn't really have a problem getting up.  I just didn't play well today.  Yeah, that's normal.   
 Q.  Have you had a lot of reaction from other players, other people, to what you did in Acapulco?  What's it been like?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Kinda.  Everybody has been congratulating me.  Honestly, I mean, I'm over that now, to be honest.   
 Q.  Miami is a place you like to play, as well.  Do you feel like Acapulco is still something that's given you a boost that you have this momentum that you can shake today off and kind of progress further and kind of build off that or keep that rolling, so to speak?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, obviously I would have liked to have done well here, keep the momentum going from Acapulco.  I mean, I'm not really thinking about Acapulco anymore.  I kind of just want a couple days off.   
I'm still in doubles here.  Just going to have some fun with Fritzy.  That's it.  I don't want to think about Miami just yet.  I don't know what's going to happen, to be honest.   
 Q.  I don't know if you have been asked or not, I'm just curious.  What's your thoughts on the decision about Chris Kermode and the ATP chief?  Do you support that decision as a player?  What's your feeling?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Honestly, haven't given it much thought.  I saw it.  I haven't given the whole thing much thought at all, to be honest.   
 Q.  Do you think you should get more involved in politics at some point later in your career?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Me get involved?   
 Q.  Just in terms of player council or things like that.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't think so.  I don't think I'd run for the player council.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT