AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2019
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/N. Kyrgios   
6-4, 7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How frustrating is it with your knee, the injury situation?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I don't think that was at all the reason I lost today.  He played unbelievable.  Unbelievable serving.  Never seen serving like that in my life.  I've never been a part of it.  I was just watching it literally going side to side.  I was trying to mix up where I was standing, trying to move before, during, like trying to do anything.   
He was in such a good rhythm on serve, I couldn't do anything.  He was way too good tonight.  Every time I returned, he served and volleyed.  He volleyed unbelievable.  He was so composed on big points, he made returns, jag returns on big points on my serve.  He was way too good for me tonight.   
 Q.  What was the story with the knee?  It wasn't something that you came into the match with, just flared up?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No, I've had a sore knee now for a while.  Did everything I could.  Been warming up.  Been super professional before I'm even hitting.  Warming up all the time.  Just an ongoing thing.   
I don't know why we're talking about it.  I literally just said it had nothing to do with my loss.  Really pointless to keep asking me questions about it.   
 Q.  Do you think Milos could have beaten anyone in that form?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No.  I think there are players that are much better than I am.  I think obviously guys like Roger and stuff can neutralize big servers so easy with the chip return, which I don't have.  But, yeah, it would have beaten a lot of players, for sure.   
I mean, the way I played, I actually didn't play that bad.  I actually thought I played okay.  I competed well.  I probably would have beaten 75% of the draw.  But Milos played scary.   
 Q.  First time you lost in the first round here.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Thanks.   
 Q.  It's probably a sign of your ranking dipping down, not getting a seeding.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Thank you.   
 Q.  Does that bother you going forward?  Is it a factor you want to climb back up the rankings so you don't have to play guys like Milos who are capable of that sort of level?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Uhm, yeah, I mean, obviously it was well conscious that I could have drawn anyone here.  I know that's the danger of being unseeded.  I'm not complaining, honestly.  He was too good.  It's a tennis match.  Like, we're okay.  Like, I lost.  It's fine.   
 Q.  Spider bite, here, rough entrance to the season.  What is your mindset towards the rest of 2019, how you see the road ahead?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I'm still in the tournament.  I got doubles tomorrow.  All my focus goes in there.  I'm going to come out there, just bluff my way through a doubles match, see how it goes.  Obviously playing with one of my best mates again, which is pretty special.  I know this means a lot to him, being part of the Australian Open, playing doubles.  That's all I'm focusing on.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  I don't know what I'm going to do yet honestly.   
Obviously I'd like to play well.  Right now I'm just focusing on the doubles, I guess.   
 Q.  What did you make of Bernard's comments last night?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I didn't see them.   
 Q.  You're unaware of him saying anything?  
NICK KYRGIOS: (Shaking head negatively.)   
 Q.  Will you play Davis Cup?  
NICK KYRGIOS: What?   
 Q.  Would you make yourself available to play Davis Cup?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I don't think I'd be picked.  There's a lot of good players right now.  Obviously De Minaur, Millman, they're all playing great.  There's a lot of depth, which is pretty good for us.   
 Q.  Is there a rift between you and Lleyton Hewitt?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not really.   
 Q.  Not really?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Is there an echo in here?   
 Q.  Bernard named you and Kokkinakis as both having told him that you don't want to play while Lleyton is captain.  How do you respond to that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know what to say.  Like, I don't have a big deal with anything.  I've always wanted to play Davis Cup.  I love Davis Cup.  If I don't play, I don't play.  Like, I'm available.  That's all I got to say.  Like, what do you want from me?   
 Q.  Are you upset that Bernard made those comments last night and mentioned you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I am not upset.   
 Q.  What is it like being part of a tennis country that always makes this much news for this stuff all the time?  Is it fun?  Is it exhausting?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I think it's ridiculous, to be honest.  With all the issues that are going on in the world, we're focusing on someone's comments about Davis Cup.  It's pretty sad.  It's pretty sad.   
 Q.  Do you support Lleyton as captain going forward?  
NICK KYRGIOS: This bloke does not stop (laughter).   
Sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT