U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2018
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. FEDERER/N. Kyrgios
6-4, 6-1, 7-5
An interview with:
NICK KYRGIOS
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You have played a lot of sets against Roger and actually beaten him.  Have you ever seen him play a more efficient or cleaner set than the second set?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he played really well today.  I thought the first set was key.  You know, he played really well today.  I didn't play my best tennis, but, I mean, he played really, really well.  I couldn't have done much today, I thought.
Q. When he hit that shot that went around the net post, seemed like you were trying to tell him something to get his attention.  What were you trying to tell him?
NICK KYRGIOS: I was trying to tell him that the shot wasn't that good (smiling).  No, it was almost unreal.  Almost got to the point where I wanted him to start making shots like that, and I finally got it.  ^  I was pretty happy with myself.
Q. You seemed very agitated at the end of the first set.  Talking to your box.  Yelling at them.  What was going through your head then?
NICK KYRGIOS: Pressure.  You know, got to the business end of the first set, crucial moment.  Played a terrible service game.  Didn't make any first serves.  Just it was tough.  I knew how important that first set was.
He loosened up straightaway after that.  He started playing some shots that we all know, you know, he can make.  All the pressure was off him.  He's an unbelievable frontrunner.  When he gets in front, there's not much you can do.
Q. It looked like you said probably the greatest shot you ever seen.  Is that what you said?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was unbelievable (smiling).  I'm probably going to place it on Instagram.
Q. Did you say, I need to hire a coach, in the middle of the match?
NICK KYRGIOS: Didn't say that.
Q. That service game, 3-All where you had the three break points, how hard or frustrating is it for him to deliver those serves he did a couple of times?
NICK KYRGIOS: Honestly, I didn't even think about it now.  You just brought it back up and it stings a lot.
Yeah, 30-40, he hit a second serve in the middle of the box and I dumped it into the net, I guess.  That was a big point.  You know, I got an early break there, and the way I was serving in the first set, could have been a different story in the first set.
I don't want to talk about it now.  It's gone.  I had the chances and I didn't take them.  Against Roger, you're not going to get many.  I thought I was playing really well in the first set.  I was creating a lot of pressure, serving well and had the chance, didn't take it.  That's what happened.
Q. My English is not that good, but when you were down 6-4, 3-0 --
NICK KYRGIOS: Rubbing it in right now.
Q. -- you actually said something, like, I need an umpire to coach.
NICK KYRGIOS: What?
Q. Yeah, I heard it.
NICK KYRGIOS: Bringing up the Lahyani thing, eh?
Q. I think it was the quote of the year.
NICK KYRGIOS: I can't remember.  I don't know what you're saying.
Q. You should hear the video, because really I heard it.  We were three or four all together and we try to understand if you say coach or umpire, but you said something.  I promise.
NICK KYRGIOS: What is he trying to ask me?  I don't know what he's trying to ask me.
Q. A lot was made that you guys had not played in a Grand Slam before.  Did the moment feel different?
NICK KYRGIOS: As I said, I came out playing really well.  I believed, you know, it didn't feel any different.  I felt -- that was actually as comfortable as as I felt on Ashe before.  Especially in the first set I thought I was playing well.
Yeah, I mean, he's played on that court hundreds of times.  He's much more experienced.  It didn't come down to that today.  He was way too good.  Obviously not at my best, but that's how he makes you play.  He makes the court feel really small at times.  If you're not serving well, he takes advantage of it.  He was too good.
Q. Do you think this is an example of not having a coach or do you think you need to get one at some point?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't think today has anything to do with that.  At 3-All, Love-40, I take one of those points, the match is wide open.  He's not going to play as well as he did towards the end of the first set or into the second set.  Doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure that out.
You know, I mean, I know how to beat him.  I have beat him before.  Obviously not today.  I'm not sure.
Q. But just in general for your career overall.
NICK KYRGIOS: Maybe.  I think more of my tennis is more to do with the mental side of things rather than technique or, you know, tactics or anything like that.  You know, we'll see.  Maybe.
Q. You probably hear people are saying, Somebody should mentor Nick.  Roger was talking about McEnroe was inviting Roger to take a mental role in your career, people talking about a coach.  Where do you feel you stand with your career and how satisfied are you?  Going forward, what do you need and what do you want to do?
NICK KYRGIOS: That's a good question.  I kind of have that, like, thoughts -- I mean, I get told a lot, What do you want from your career?  I wouldn't say I'm satisfied with my career.  I think there is a lot more to be done and there is a lot more to be, I mean, explored.
In my career, I don't think I have -- I have been around for about four years now.  I have barely done anything.  I think I can do a lot more.  As I said, it's all mental with me, I think.  If I want it enough, you know, I have a coaching option, psychology option.
I think there is a lot more things to explore.  But, I mean, obviously I want to achieve more in the sport.  I don't think I have done anything.
Q. Shot-making display, you had great shots, as well.  Do you enjoy yourself in such moments, even when you're on the losing end on a match?
NICK KYRGIOS: I think Roger is an exception.  You know, if anyone else is doing those shots against me, I'm probably not too happy.  But it's Roger.  I was pretty happy (smiling).
Q. What do you think you have learned from Roger's example over the years and that you might take with you going forward?
NICK KYRGIOS: I think we're two very different characters.  I think, you know, just the way he goes about things.  I could take a leaf out of his book.  The way he behaves on court, you know, his demeanor, I could definitely take away.  I don't want to change myself too much, but I could definitely take away things he does in certain situations.  He's the ultimate role model to anyone who wants to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT