THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 7, 2018
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/N. Kyrgios
6-1, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Is there a physical issue for you today?
NICK KYRGIOS: No.  I felt great this morning.  Hit the ball fine.  As soon as I got out there, I just didn't feel good.  I don't know what it was.  I mean, he played well.  I always find it tough playing him.
But, yeah, I didn't play well today.
Q. You were shaking your arm a bit.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, just trying to loosen up.  I was pretty uptight.  A lot of nerves.  I just struggled with a lot of things today.  I just never settled.  Obviously getting broken first game didn't help me.  I just kind of panicked.  Everything kind of just went south, I guess.
Q. Starting so late, especially knowing you have such a limited window of daylight, so...
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I wasn't really thinking about it.  I was thinking about it before the match.  People were telling me what the situation was and stuff.  Daylight was definitely my least concern out there today for sure.
Q. You mentioned many matches of you are a tug of war within yourself.  How did that apply today, if at all?
NICK KYRGIOS: I just never settled.  Like, I just didn't feel -- I don't know.  I never felt settled.  I was struggling.  I didn't serve well.  I didn't feel good from the ground.  I almost couldn't move.  My footwork was terrible.  Just a bad day, I guess.
He played well, though.  He returned really well.  Most guys aren't getting a racquet or putting balls back in off my serve most of the time.  He was returning well.
Q. Was it a physical feeling that you couldn't loosen up or something else?
NICK KYRGIOS: I guess I just kind of panicked a little bit.  I don't know.  I don't really know how to describe it.
Q. What is your schedule from here?
NICK KYRGIOS: Probably take a week off.  I've had a pretty big last couple weeks.  Then I'm scheduled to play Atlanta, so...
Q. You seemed very hurried towards the end of the first set.  Did you want to get that over with?  What was going through your mind?
NICK KYRGIOS: Not much was going through my mind.  I just -- I don't know.
Q. Is this a shattering loss, given it's the best chance to win a slam?
NICK KYRGIOS: It's not shattering.  I mean, it's not I'm going -- I mean, I'm disappointed.  Like I'm pissed off, of course.  Like I wanted to do well.  Not much I can do really.  Yeah, I mean, it's disappointing.  It is what it is right now.
Q. How do you work on things like not panicking, not worrying?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know, man.  I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT