ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2018
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/N. Kyrgios   
1-6, 7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How tough were those conditions out there?  Super humid, obviously a really hot today.  And how is your body in general having to pull out in Washington, D.C., and then looked like you were dealing with some stuff during the match, too.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, conditions weren't tough at all.  And my hip is, obviously, a little bit sore.  That's why I called the trainer on the court.  So it's pretty self-explanatory.   
 Q.  Even while you were winning that first set 6-1, it seemed like you were walking pretty gingerly out there.  Is that something that you came into the match already aware that it might be difficult for you, and how big of an impact was it on the end result ultimately?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, I haven't played for two weeks.  I pulled out.  So, yeah, I walked into the match knowing my hip probably wasn't 100%.   
I was playing well, I thought.  It's good to see him back, I guess.  He's obviously had a tough 12 months with his injury, and it's good seeing him back winning some matches.   
 Q.  Have you got some good advice about what the best plan going forward is to get healthy for the US Open or anything that you could actually do to heal the process up or speed it up?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.   
 Q.  Do you have any positives to take away?  Any positives on Stan's game?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I have no positives.   
Stan, for him to get through matches like this, healthy, no pain, that's a good sign for him.  He's playing a good level.  He's got a world-class backhand and matches like this are going to give him confidence.   
But, no, I can't take any positives away from this at all.   
 Q.  You wrote just before Wimbledon started that kind of having been away from the tour for a while with injuries, it made you appreciate playing tennis a little bit more and giving you more motivation.  Do you still feel that way or has that changed at all?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No.   
 Q.  What do you make of the serve clock?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Doesn't really make a difference to me.   
 Q.  Are you still intending on playing in the doubles here or too soon for you to make that call?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I'm going to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT