THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2018
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. KYRGIOS/D. Istomin   
7-6, 7-6, 6-7, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you assess that today?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Very tough match.  I didn't play anywhere near my best tennis today.  I served well.  But, you know, I struggled to find rhythm.  That's what he does so well on the grass court.  He served really well today.   
I thought he played really, really well.  I played him one time on grass a couple years ago, Davis Cup.  Today was much tougher than I remembered.  As I said, I wasn't playing well from the back.  I struggled to find rhythm.  A couple, like, nerves.  I was a bit nervous going out there today.   
It was a tough match, but I was expecting it to be tough from the start.  I knew he was going to come out pretty confident.  I thought he played well.   
 Q.  Something exciting about those matches?  You didn't get the only break in the match until the eighth game.  Close, no service breaks.  Is it fun to be a part of?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not really.  I would prefer to play like a South American guy who's never played on grass before (smiling).   
I know what you mean.  It's obviously exciting getting to tiebreaks.  That match could have gone either way, to be honest.  I was in control the first two tiebreaks.  But if he takes one of those opening sets, the match is going to be incredibly tough.   
Yeah, I know what you're saying.  I would prefer to play a guy that has never seen a grass court before.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of buzz about you in the past few days and weeks.  You seem to have a bit of a different attitude yourself.  Seems like you're positioning yourself in a different way now.  Has there been a change in your evolution, your attitude towards the game, expectations of yourself?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I'm just in a lot better place than I was last year.  I came into Wimbledon last year injured, pretty bad mental state.  I was out of the game for two and a half months.  So coming back, I've been excited.  I've been winning a lot of matches.  Playing on grass.   
I guess I'm in kind of like a happy place.  I feel like I'm playing well.  I mean, I have a different approach.  I feel like I'm one of the guys that can cause a bit of an uproar at this event.  We'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  You served very well out there.  Unfortunately one of your serves caught one of the ball girls.  Was she okay?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was tough.  Originally when I heard the sound, I thought it hit the scoreboard.  Then I realized it was her arm.  It was tough.  She started crying.  It was tough.  She took it like a champ, though.  I would have been crying, for sure.   
 Q.  What do you remember, if anything, about the 2008 match when Nadal beat Federer, the first time Nadal won the championship here?  
NICK KYRGIOS: What do I remember about it?  Tough match.  I mean, the level was unbelievable I thought.  When you ever watch those two guys play, it's just contrasting styles, complete contrast.  I think that's one guy, Roger, has never really worked out.  He knows how to play him, but his head-to-head isn't that great against him.   
I love watching those two play.  It's a complete contrast in styles.  It was cool to see Rafa finally get a W against Roger, on the grass especially.  It was two sets to love up and then Roger won two sets.  To steady the ship and win in the fifth set is pretty impressive.   
 Q.  What do you make of what those guys are still doing?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it's insane.  Like tennis is physical.  I get sore after I played like three matches in a row.  I don't even know if I can play, like, when I'm 28.  I don't know how old he is, like 36.  That's insane.  It's crazy.  I mean, they're so professional.  They do everything, tick all the boxes.  Too good.   
 Q.  Do you think down the track you might actually face Bernard Tomic if you keep winning?  When is the last time you played him?  How do you feel about it?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Me and Bernie, I don't think we've ever played on the tour.  We practiced a lot.  He was one of my Davis Cup teammates.  We've hit a lot against each other.  On the grass, he's a nightmare.  He plays very well on the grass.  If he puts his mind to it, he can do some damage here, for sure.  I saw how he played today.  He looks comfortable.   
I feel like kind of when I watch him play now, a bit of weight off his shoulders.  When I watched him this morning, he looked like he was having a bit of fun.  It's good to see him back out there because on the grass he's so talented.   
If I play him, I play him.  We both got tough matches coming up.  I think he plays Nishikori.  It's going to be tough for him.  I've got a tough match ahead, as well.   
If it happens, it happens.   
 Q.  You're obviously a speedy player, don't mess around too much.  Do you think the shot clock is a good idea?  It will be at the US Open.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Shot clock for main draw?   
 Q.  When you serve between points, 25 seconds.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, it's a written rule anyway.  I don't really know why we need the shot clock.  I guess the umpire has the clock in front of him, so...  I mean, yeah, I guess it's okay.   
 Q.  Obviously you've had some complicated moments in your career and everything.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I have (smiling)?   
 Q.  Privately a lot of people talk about how you're charitable, get involved with kids.  Talk a little bit about that side of you.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I don't know.  I guess I just don't take my life too seriously, I guess.  I like to have fun.  I don't know, I guess tennis for me isn't everything.  I think it's given me the opportunity to help people.  I guess seeing, at the Australian Open, when I'm hitting with kids before I'm going out to play a match, for me it's so much fun for me to see them have that opportunity.   
I don't know.  I guess it's just given me the opportunity to make a lot people's lives better.  At the end of the day, that's what it's all about, I guess.  It's not really about winning or losing.   
 Q.  You mentioned the next match.  You play Robin Haase.  You played him once on clay, I believe.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Savvy, an old guy who knows how to win tennis matches.  Great forehand.  Obviously can play on the grass.  I've seen him play a lot.  He's going to be tough.  Beat Copil today, which isn't easy.  Copil has a really good serve.  I know it's going to be tough.   
I played him a long time ago.  I don't really remember too much about him.  Nothing is going to change for me.   
 Q.  You go from turning your game kind of on and off, you go from playing really soft stuff to just wailing on the ball.  In the course of a game, feeling a little frustrated, not doing too much, all of a sudden playing a great game.  Is that just sort of natural to you?  Is it something you have to wake yourself up?  What is your mental process there, or is there no mental process?  Is it just emotion?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I don't know, man.  I just have so many thoughts when I'm out there.  Like, I get so angry.  I'm, like, I just go through so many different patches in a game.  I guess it's so hard for me to find that balance.   
Yeah, I know what you mean.  I look like I don't care one minute, then the next minute I'm playing really well.  Not much really goes on, to be honest.  It's just like, I don't know.  It's a tug of war all the time.   
 Q.  You mentioned Bernie looks like he's having more fun.  Do you feel you are?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, especially the last month or two that I've been back, for sure.  I don't know.  I got a sense with Bernie today when I was watching him that he was having fun.  Last year seeing him go down the way he did, it was not good for anyone.  He was a guy that was struggling with a lot of things.  Today is a massive improvement.  That's good to see.   
 Q.  Have you made any adjustments on your serve, changed anything with the delivery or motion at all?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It's been the same since I was about 10 years old.   
 Q.  Were you able to check if she was okay?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not after my match.  I showered, got changed, stretched, then came here.  I would hope that she's all right.  I'm assuming there would have been medical services there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT