AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2020
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. KYRGIOS/G. Simon
6-2, 6-4, 4-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How pleased were you that that one didn't go five?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I was pretty happy. I knew that if it went five sets, it would have been very tough physically, especially going up against a guy like that, with the conditions being very slow.
But I thought I lifted in the fourth. I just put my head down. I lost my way a little bit in the third set. I put my head down, I told myself, Just cut the bullshit and just get to work.
I got the break at 5-All. It was a good feeling to get through that.
Q. You just spoke about you put your head back down, won the fourth set. Do you feel maybe six or 12 months ago that might have been a match you would have let things get out of control and you might have lost?
NICK KYRGIOS: Maybe. I was 13 in the world. I was all right 12 months ago. But, yeah, possibly. Just happy that I didn't go there tonight.
Q. Is it too simple to, as you say, a lot of people would say it's a sign of his maturity, how far he's come? Is that too simple? Is there more to it than that?
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I came back from two sets to love when I was 19 on that court four years ago, I think, so...
I don't know. I think every match is different. As that reporter said, could have gone to a dark place and I brought it back. I somehow scraped the win. Maturity? I don't know. I'm just happy to get the win.
Q. Thoughts on your buddy Tommy Paul in the third round after being on the radar for a long time? What are your thoughts on what he's done here?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, unbelievable run so far. I think he can keep going, to be honest. Who does he play next?
Q. Fucsovics.
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, so very winnable match. Tough competitor. He's played two pretty good matches.
I think Tommy is really good. I think he's got a lot of weapons. He's naturally a really good athlete. He's a good kid. But he likes to have fun, as well. We get along well.
Yeah, he's going to do some pretty good things, I think.
Q. What sort of fun do you have?
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, we're just good friends (smiling).
Q. The time violation for the serve, did you think you made your point well to the chair umpire?
NICK KYRGIOS: I know what you're getting at (smiling).
That's part of my motion. So I started my service motion. There wasn't any extracurricular activities I was doing before my serve to waste time.
I mean, it happened. That's the ref's discretion whether I went over the clock or not. It really didn't matter too much.
Q. Quite vocal towards your player box again tonight, particularly towards the end of the third set. Do you need to have a word to them about what you want from them in those moments or should they know?
NICK KYRGIOS: Not at all. I was being a bit of a dickhead to them. I apologized as soon as I went back into the locker room. They don't deserve that. They do a lot of things for me on and off the court.
No, it's not acceptable from me. Nothing to do with them.
Q. What does having Lleyton there do for you?
NICK KYRGIOS: I guess it's just good for support, to have a Grand Slam champion like that get behind you. He's always very calm. It's good to have him out there.
Q. You're moving pretty well on the court at the moment. Are you pretty well injury-free at this stage?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I feel good physically. That's probably the positive I take out of today. Long rallies, long match, felt good physically. That was probably the biggest positive I'll take out of today. I feel fine at the moment, so...
Q. Back on the time violation. The commentators were saying they thought you might have been waiting for the crowd to quiet down. Was that a factor?
NICK KYRGIOS: No.
Q. How conscious are you during a match of being on probation? Is it front of mind?
NICK KYRGIOS: Not at all. Not at all. I feel I play my best tennis when -- look, it's not like I'm like that every match. There were a couple times when I went overboard, I think, last year which caused the probation. It's not like I'm doing it every match.
No, I'm not thinking about it at all.
Q. Carla Suarez Navarro is playing her last year on tour. This is her last Australian Open. You're a fan of her. Would you play mixed with her before she retires?
NICK KYRGIOS: Definitely. We've actually been talking about it a lot. I've actually asked her like three or four times. She shuts me down every time. I think it's because she goes deep in singles. I don't really want to hamper her performance at all.
But if she's willing to play, I'll definitely play. She's amazingly talented. I think we could do well. I think we'd have a lot of fun.
Q. You're comfortable on Melbourne Arena. Is it going to be the same if and when you have to switch to Rod Laver?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yes, I'd be comfortable.
Q. He's playing a tiebreak right now, but you might be playing Khachanov. You played him in Cincinnati last year. What are your thoughts on his game?
NICK KYRGIOS: Very aggressive player. He's difficult to play against. He's got a big serve, big forehand, looks to dictate.
But, I mean, he might not even come through at this moment. Question is kind of irrelevant. So yeah.
Q. On the schedule for mixed tomorrow with Amanda. What are you hoping to get out of that?
NICK KYRGIOS: I just want to go out there and have a lot of fun. She's an amazing person. I'm just looking forward to go out there and hopefully -- I mean, she lost first round. I know it's not going to be easy for her to be around the tournament.
Hopefully I can get her up, bring some good vibes. Hopefully we can do well. I think we can. She's an amazing player. I'm looking forward to it.
I've been excited for this for like a month and a half. I'm like a little kid at the moment. I'm pretty excited.
Q. What is so exciting about it?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know. I get more nervous like doubles matches and stuff because I don't want to let anyone down.
Q. Thoughts on Ymer, your other possibly opponent?
NICK KYRGIOS: He beat me on FIFA once. I haven't seen him play that much. He's an unbelievable athlete. I just watched the screen when I was in the ice bath.
He's really fast. I mean, if he's in a tiebreak with Khachanov in the first set, he's pretty good.
Q. Whose Rafa was better, yours or Gilles'?
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know. I don't wear underwear, so... Probably Gilles'.
Q. Given the talent that you have, what you bring to the game, there's a sense among the fans, with people wanting you for this to be a tournament where you're going to really break through, put things all together. Do you sense that at all? Do you feel pressure from the fans?
NICK KYRGIOS: Dude, I'm in the third round. Like, I'm not looking forward at all to any of that sort of stuff. So many things I want to do.
I'm not even thinking about winning the Grand Slam at the moment. I just want to day by day get better on and off the court.
My behavior towards my box tonight was not acceptable, one. In my next match, I don't want to do that.
I'm not thinking about winning the Grand Slam. Like, that's not essential for me at this moment in time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT