FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2018
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/N. Kyrgios   
7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That couldn't have been closer, really.  Just a point in the set, really.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, it was tough.  I didn't really -- the worst serves he only played was the first game in the match.  I maybe had a little look there.  Apart from that he played pretty well.   
I thought his serve -- I knew his serve was going to be tough today.  I thought his forehand was really, really good.  His first ball after his serve was pretty good.   
Yeah, I mean, it was a couple of points in it.   
 Q.  Overall as you look back over the past two weeks, how do you see things right now?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I've played some good tennis, have played some tough opponents.  I played a lot of three-setters and a lot of tennis.  That's a positive.  My body feels pretty good.   
Yeah, it was a pretty successful couple of weeks, obviously given being out for two-and-a-half months before that.   
 Q.  You've probably lost in the last two weeks to the best grass courters in the world at the moment.  Is that something you can take solace from?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I can.  Yeah, it's positive.   
 Q.  You have a little bit of time.  What do you like to do in London when you're here when you have a little bit of time off?  Do you stay in?  Video games?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, just stay at the house and play video games and stuff (smiling).   
 Q.  Are you in the Fortnite craze?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I play a little bit.  I'm kind of off it now.  I have played it so much.   
 Q.  What now?  Will you hang up the racquet for a couple of days or what will you do?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, probably have a day or two off and just slowly get back into it.  I think I'm playing a couple of exhibitions next week, Boodles, I have those to play.  Obviously the next couple of days will be pretty light.  Maybe do some gym and stuff.   
 Q.  You've lost narrowly to Cilic and Federer in the last two weeks.  Most of the guys haven't really laid too many gloves on you in terms of looking like they were going to win that match.  Do you feel like you're the third favorite going into Wimbledon now as a grass court player and only that caliber of player can beat you?  You must be confident.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I feel confident, for sure.  There's a lot of grass court players.  I mean, the Grand Slams are totally different.  Best-of-five sets.  There's a lot more momentum swings.   
Yeah, I mean, the last couple of weeks, I feel pretty untouchable on serve.  Yeah, I mean, today I just didn't have any chances to break at all.  Like he played a pretty clean match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT