FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2018
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. KYRGIOS/A. Murray   
2-6, 7-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How is your body feeling?  
NICK KYRGIOS: My elbow feels good, which is always a positive these days.  But 2-All in the first set I split-stepped and my hip kind of, I don't know, just kind of pinched a little bit, and I was kind of dealing with a little bit of pain for the whole match, as ridiculous as that sounds, because the guy was out from a hip injury.   
My hip was just a little bit sore.  But apart from that, I mean, I'm feeling okay.   
 Q.  You mentioned in your interview out there it was hard to keep his comeback from out of your mind.  Can you talk about how strange that felt for you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was strange because on big points, when I won them, I almost felt bad if I showed any emotion.  Like I didn't really want to get into his grill at all (smiling).   
But other guys, if I'm up 30, like 30-All or have a match point, I'm probably going to be a bit psyched up.  But the whole time I was just like -- it was kind of good to see him back out there, but it was a very awkward match for me because I was thinking the guy hadn't played a match in a year, and I was getting smoked in the first set.  I was, like, this is not going to be a good look if I lose this match (smiling).   
Obviously there was a lot of thoughts going out there.  I'm happy I pulled it through, but ultimately just seeing him back out there -- I mean, we played for like two-and-a-half hours, so if tomorrow he pulls up good, then it's probably a success for him.   
 Q.  Do you feel he played a high level?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I'm sure it wasn't anywhere near his highest level, but I wasn't expecting anything less.  I knew he was going to compete.  It wasn't going to take him long to see the ball at all.  He returned -- every time he got a racquet on the ball he made may serve back.   
You know, obviously, you know, his serve rhythm and all that will take time to come back.  I thought he played okay.   
 Q.  Besides the fact he hasn't played in about a year, how important was the result for you considering your record against him?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Probably one of my -- I didn't think about that at all.  I just wanted to go out there and play another good match.  You know, I came out there -- I was excited.  I mean, when I saw the draw I was excited.  To play another real good grass courter before Wimbledon is ideal.   
You know, obviously I'd like to beat him, but that was -- you know, that wasn't in the back of my mind at all about the record or anything like that.   
 Q.  What do you think of him from a technical point of view?  Kind of what impressed you?  And can you sort of compare a bit the level now to when you played him before when he's obviously been more in rhythm?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I just thought maybe he got a bit nervous at times.  On the match court, I thought he was a bit -- in big moments he played well, but every time I have played him in the past he's played unbelievable.  On the big points he's played really well.   
Today I thought he might have been a little bit nervous.  He would have never doubled on match point when I played him years ago.  But that was his first match back.   
He returns unbelievable.  Everything is the same, really.  Just he's got to get matches under his belt.  Can't expect too much from him, I guess.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
NICK KYRGIOS: His backhand is money.  His returns, as I said, returns, backhand, it's tough to really see.  I mean, his movement seemed okay.   
But, I mean, if the question is if he is going to be able to back it up day after day, we'll how it goes for him.  Today I think it's positive for him.   
 Q.  Where do you think you went well today?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I haven't been returning well at all the last couple weeks on the grass.  My singles in Stuttgart I struggled to return.  When I was playing Roger I really struggled.   
Today I thought I returned pretty well.  I broke him a fair few times.  I put a lot of balls back in play off his first serve.  That's really one thing that stands out.   
I always serve okay, like, pretty good.  But I think my forehand return today was okay.   
 Q.  I wondered, you said it depends how his body pulls up in the morning, but do you think he can cause a stir at Wimbledon?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, if his body is okay, yeah.  What kind of question is that?   
 Q.  Do you think he will have a good run?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, for sure.  If he's feeling good, then I don't see any reason why not.  There is only a handful of guys who can really play on the grass, anyway.  He's got for sure a good chance.   
 Q.  Chat at the net, what did he say?  Go on and win it?  
NICK KYRGIOS: No, he didn't say that (smiling).   
I straightaway just asked him, How are you feeling?  I said it to him.  He said, Good.  That was the main thing.   
 Q.  Your streakiness on serves.  Was that a factor?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not really.  I have been doing that for a long time.  I just hit it.  If I miss, I miss.  If I make it, I make it.   
 Q.  You have played two Wimbledon champions back to back.  Where do you feel your game is at going in?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It's good.  For me, if I'm feeling good physically and if, you know, if I believe in myself, there is no reason why I can't go into Wimbledon as one of the serious threats.   
I played well against Roger last week.  Up 3-1 in the breaker serving.  I wouldn't say we played unbelievable today.  I played okay.   
I feel like I'm in good form on the grass.  My timing, my hands and stuff is all good.  I have just got to keep staying healthy, hopefully, and I'll be fine.   
 Q.  Looking forward to playing with Lleyton in the doubles?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Hell no.  (Laughter.)   
Yeah, I am.  Yeah, no, I'll be fine.   
 Q.  Thoughts on either Edmund or Ryan Harrison?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, Kyle's been playing great.  I played juniors with him.  I always knew he was going to be pretty good.  He had a really good forehand.   
I never really get surprised when he does well.  He can play on this stuff, as well.  He has a good backhand, big serve.  Harrison, he serves well.   
It's going to be a tough match either way.  Yeah, I'm not thinking about that at the moment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT