MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 26, 2018
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. KYRGIOS/F. Fognini   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You were serving big today.  I think Fabio had real trouble reading your first serve.  He's just said he felt like he played really badly against you.  What was your take on it?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, you know, I came out this tournament not really expecting too much.  Obviously been struggling with injury.  You know, a couple days before the tournament I was having back spasms, so I have been not nowhere close to 100%.  And still beating these guys is a good confidence boost for me.  Honestly, I would say probably around 70%.   
So to be playing, you know, serving this well and still performing like this is pretty good.  So I'm not really worrying about how they are playing.  I'm just trying to get through these matches without my body letting me down again, so I'm taking it very slowly.   
 Q.  How tough it is to gain momentum?  You had a great start to the year and got injured in Davis Cup.  Do you train differently at all when you're coming back from an injury?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, for sure.  I haven't been able to really train hard.  I have been sort of slowly building myself back up to where I don't have pain.  You know, at this stage I'm still taking it slowly.  I'm still, you know, getting a couple hours of physio every day, doing my rehab in the physio room.  I'm taking it pretty slow.  But I haven't been able to try and train to improve.  It's more train to just get back to playing.   
 Q.  You were just saying about the physio and all that.  What are the various things you're actually doing between matches in those days when you're not playing?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, I mean, just keeping everything loose.  I mean, it was my elbow that was giving me trouble, and then it started to feel better towards Indian Wells and I wasn't ready to compete, so I took more time there.   
I got here, and, you know, my elbow was feeling good.  I started having back spasms.  I guess I was just overcompensating for a couple things.  But now it's just trying to, you know, make sure my body is moving, you know, before I head out there and just making sure everything feels loose and warm before I head out there.   
 Q.  I'm sure you have been asked this many times, but what do you feel about the Davis Cup new proposal by ITF?  I know Australia has a great legacy of the way Davis Cup is.  What are your thoughts on the changes?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I don't really have too many thoughts on it.  You know, obviously I would -- I think Davis Cup is pretty cool the way it is now.  I think having all the home-and-away ties is a pretty good thing.   
You know, I think that's the cool thing about Davis Cup.  You can play away and have those great memories with your team.  I think best of five is good.  I think the format the way it is now is good.   
I mean, I think to sacrifice a little bit of your schedule to play for your country, it's an honor to play for your country, so...   
 Q.  Certainly Zverev has to play Ferrer still to come, but let's say Sascha gets through.  How much do you look forward to that match, considering the zinger you all had last year?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it will be a lot of fun.  I'm sure we're both going to look forward to it.  He's a great player.  I mean, they are both great players.  David certainly knows how to win a match.   
You know, I don't really care who I play.  At the moment I'm not even thinking tactically or anything like that.  I'm just trying to get through these matches without, you know, being in pain, pretty much, just going out there and competing and being healthy.  That's my main focus at the moment.   
 Q.  You have had to play with your fair share of injuries despite being pretty young.  Many top players are also struggling with more or less serious injuries.  Do you think it's a coincidence of the past two, three years, or is it something that needs to be changed on the schedules, you know, some things create more injuries than others?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I have had a couple niggling injuries.  I haven't had surgery or anything as yet, touch wood.  Yeah, I'm not too sure.  I think I have a lot of work to do in the gym.  I have a lot more boxes to tick in my professionalism to maybe prevent these injuries from happening.   
I'm not so sure about top guys.  I mean, I can't really speak for them.  They are probably all going through some things.  I don't know what's going on.  Age is probably a factor.   
 Q.  You had Gordon Hayward here in Miami Open.  Did he watch your game today?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he was in my box today, which was really cool.  It's been good to have him around.  We have been hanging around a little bit.  It's been fun to have him here.   
 Q.  I guess we have Celtics in common.  I'm from Boston.  What's your forecast for the playoffs coming up?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I have faith, but we have a lot of injuries at the moment.  I think we're playing well at the moment.  We are on a bit of a win streak.   
Obviously our bench is really good.  But, I mean, I think next year is going to be the year when hopefully Gordon comes back and he's playing really well and Curry's feeling healthy.  I think we definitely have got a shot.   
 Q.  I know you have been busy here, but there is a big storm back home.  Wondering if you have seen anything on that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I have no idea.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT