AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2018
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/N. Kyrgios   
7-6, 7-6, 4-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you assess that performance overall?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, it was a tough match.  Obviously I knew it was always going to be tough.  Yeah, he's been playing great.  I think with him, he hasn't even found his best form yet and he's still getting through all those matches, which is pretty frightening.  I think once he finds his feet and he has more confidence, he's got a real chance at winning it.   
Yeah, I was only a couple points in it, you know.  It wasn't like I got demolished out there or anything.  I had a lot of chances to win the match and I just came up short.  Obviously it's frustrating but it is what it is.   
 Q.  What did you say to him in those moments at the net?  Clearly there is a lot of respect between the two of you.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I just told him to believe in himself.  Sometimes I think he lack a bit of belief.  But I think he's got the game and he's proved to everyone that he can win one of these slams.  So I just told him to believe himself and hopefully he can go all the way.   
 Q.  What do you think the difference was in that last tiebreak?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Couple points.  You know, he made a couple scrappy returns, made me play an extra ball.  The point at 3-All I hit an unbelievable forehand and then he got there and I missed the forehand in the net.   
Yeah, I thought he served well in the breakers and he just made that extra ball.   
 Q.  How do you feel about how you played tonight compared to the earlier rounds of the tournament?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I played well tonight.  I thought I played well.   
I think I just had a massive month.  I was feeling a little tight at some stages in the match and the adrenaline kicked in.  I'm pretty happy with my Aussie summer.  I thought I played well.  I thought I played well tonight.   
 Q.  If it required, did you have a fifth set in you physically?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I was mentally preparing for a fifth set.  You know, I could feel the momentum coming.  You know, I have done it before.  I have come back from two sets to love.  Yeah, I was mentally prepared for it, yeah.   
 Q.  Has this month taught you anything about yourself?  What do you think it will give you going forward in the season?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I feel confident.  You know, I still feel confident after losing that match.  You know, all eyes are on Davis Cup for me now in a week and a half, or couple weeks.  I'm just going to rest for a couple days and slowly get back into hitting, hitting a couple of balls and just being with the team and that's it.   
 Q.  Competing in the Laver Arena, Rod Laver watching, Lleyton is doing TV, how does that energy work for you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: It was awesome.  I saw Rod there and Johnny Mac commentating in the box and we smiled a couple of times.  It was obviously a massive experience.  I had my first win a couple days ago against Tsonga.  So I feel a lot more comfortable on that court now.   
 Q.  I think John actually said on commentary that's the most he ever saw you fight in a match.  What do you say to that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, can't argue with that (smiling).   
 Q.  Last year after you exited the Australian Open you were booed off court and you admitted afterwards that really hurt you.  Tonight, big standing ovation.  After losing how did that make you feel?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Jeez, I bloody deserved it, I feel.  Yeah, I won a tournament in Brisbane.  I gave my best efforts this week.  I came up short.  I beat three quality opponents.   
I lost tonight to one of the best players in the world.  Went down swinging.  Obviously I feel a lot better this time around.  Last year I really didn't know what I was going to do after the Australian Open last year.  I feel like I have more of a vision and goal for this year.  I think I'm in a good head space.   
 Q.  Did you have a problem with racquet tension sometimes during the match?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  Sometimes last couple of weeks I have been going a little bit loose in my strings.  Yeah, obviously the conditions played a little bit different tonight.   
 Q.  You mentioned having a vision and goal.  What is that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I just feel like I'm trying to get better.  You know, there was periods where I stepped on the court last year where I was just doing it for the sake of doing it.  In the offseason I didn't really have a coach but I was working on two things that I thought I needed to work on was my volleys and transitioning and my forehand return.  I was working on that in the offseason just on my own, and obviously with Lleyton, Stoneberg (phonetic) and Reidy, those kind of guys.  I think it paid off.  I'm trying to get better.   
 Q.  Do you think in that process a coach might be forthcoming in this year, this coming year?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't think so.  You know, I feel like I have lost one match this year, so I'm doing all right.   
 Q.  Do you like having a feeling of freedom within the game?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, definitely.  I feel that's one side that I love.  Kind of doing things on my own terms.  I just, yeah, I like the freedom, yeah.   
 Q.  Where do you think that comes from?  Can you talk about that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.  I had a couple of experiences in my young career today with a couple of people that, you know, I have just gone from one extreme to the other.  I was in a very structured environment when I was young and I didn't like it.  I guess I have just now gone to the other extreme.   
 Q.  You seemed to be talking a lot to your box during the match.  Can you elaborate on what was going through your head at those moments and what you were talking about?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I was talking with my friends and just talking to them.   
 Q.  Novak had very kind words for you.  He said players in early 20s like yourself and Hyeon Chung, we will see them winning a slam very soon.  What do you think about those comments?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, I hope so, but I've got a lot of work to do.  You know, there is a lot of good players.  I mean, I lost in the fourth round.  I still have to win.  To win one, I've got to win another four matches.  I'm a long way from that.   
 Q.  Seemed like you were asking people in your box to stand up quite a bit.  Does that specifically help in matches?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.   
 Q.  A writer recently said that whatever you say about Nick, he's true to himself.  He has an authenticity.  Does that ring true to you?  Is that something you're satisfied with and proud of?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't really care, to be honest.  I just do my thing.  You know, I play the game and I play the game the way I want it to be played.  I don't follow, I don't really idolize anything or follow anyone.  I just do my own thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT