ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2017
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. KYRGIOS/V. Troicki
6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel physically?
NICK KYRGIOS: I feel okay.  Yeah, still in pain, but I played okay today.
Q. Where exactly are you in pain?
NICK KYRGIOS: My hip, my shoulder.
Q. How well can you deal with these things?  You've had them in the past.  Does that make it a little bit easier?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I know that I can still win matches, you know, not being 100%.  But yeah, I mean, I just got to keep doing the right things.  I'm getting a lot of treatment, trying to do my rehab every day.
I'm doing everything I can, I guess.
Q. Did you think about not playing here after retiring in Washington?  Was it something that crossed your mind?
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, yeah, for sure.  I've been struggling the last couple months with a bunch of things.  But yeah, I mean, I don't really know.  I wake up, I want to play.  And then I wake up and, I don't know, some days I don't, so...
I mean, I felt good today, obviously.
Q. It looked really good.  How did it feel out there?
NICK KYRGIOS: I'm glad.
Yeah, it felt okay.  I didn't feel like it hit the ball extremely well.  I didn't serve great.  I thought I served okay.
But he played far from his best tennis as well.  I've seen him play unbelievable tennis.  We all have.  He's been struggling physically, as well.  I think he retired at Wimbledon.  We're kind of in the same boat.
I wish all the best for him.  He's a great guy.  We're good friends.
For me, it was an okay match.  I'm going to go hit some balls now, trying to get some more rhythm and stuff.
Q. In Newport I talked to Matthew Ebden.  He was very supportive for you, for Bernard, about the negative issues which happened in the last couple of months.  Can you talk about your relationship with the Australian media.  Matthew talk about the local media doesn't handle the situation very positively, not like the international media.  Is it true?
NICK KYRGIOS: What have I done wrong in the last couple months?
Q. Some negative issues like Bernard Tomic is a little bit boring.
NICK KYRGIOS: What have I done?
Q. The Australian media doesn't handle the situation.  Negatively puts you and too much Tomic in the newspaper.
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know what to say to you.
I guess, I mean, we all make mistakes.  Bernard is struggling at the moment.  He doesn't really know what he wants to do.  I respect that.  He deserves every right to be happy and try and find what makes him happy.  If that's not tennis at the moment, then so be it.
I mean, we're not bad humans.  We don't, I don't know, deal drugs.  We don't do anything.  We have some bad issues on the court sometimes.  It's just us competing.
I mean, he's not a bad person.  The media can write what they want.  But, you know, at the end of the day he's been, to be fair, to be honest, me and Bernard have been the best two players from Australia for the last five years, so that's the facts.  We've been in the top 20.  We've beaten top players, you know.
So doesn't matter what you write really.  It's facts.
Q. Next up for you is Paolo Lorenzi or Frances Tiafoe.  What can you say about the prospective matchups?
NICK KYRGIOS: Tiafoe is a great player.  He's a young guy, got a huge future ahead of him.  He's got a great game.  I'm really good friends with him as well.  It would be awesome to play him.  But he's going to have a good future.
Obviously Lorenzi is a veteran, knows how to win tennis matches, competes for every point, is a great competitor.  He doesn't give up in anything.
So, you know, it's going to be a tough match either way.  I'm just happy to get the win today.  I'm not really going to think about it.
Q. Obviously a lot of Canadian fans here are supporting.  What is the best part of about being here in Montreal?
NICK KYRGIOS: I really like Montreal.  You know, I played a couple years ago.  I played well.  Obviously had a bit of a mix-up here.  I was young back then.
I love it here.  I think, you know, I find it like quite a strange city, but it's cool.  It's kind of cool.  I like it.
I haven't really explored that much yet.  I got some free time now and tomorrow.  I enjoy it here, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT