U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2017
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. MILLMAN/N. Kyrgios   
6-3, 1-6, 6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What happened in the third?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.  I was obviously -- you know, I knew it was going to be a tough match from the get-go.  I was feeling good.  Obviously the final in Cincy.  Every practice session I had here was good, feeling good.  Early in the third set I hit one serve and I never felt the same after that.   
 Q.  Was it a new problem with the shoulder?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I was feeling good, like, I knew that after I lost the first I knew I had to dig deep.  Played a great second set.  Was feeling good.  And then I don't know.  I just -- something didn't feel right in my arm.   
 Q.  What's the preliminary diagnosis?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I got off the court 15 minutes ago.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Are you going to get any...  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.   
 Q.  How much of a concern is it for you?  The slams, something always pops up somewhere physically.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.  I have had a diabolical year at these slams.  It doesn't surprise me.   
It's just the story of my career, really.  I will have good weeks; I'll have bad weeks.  It's just a roller-coaster.   
 Q.  Will you take the risk to play Davis Cup, or is it possible to say I'm not risking it?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, I've got time up my sleeve now.  Obviously Davis Cup is one of my priorities this year.  I put it right at the top of my list.   
I have put a lot of effort into Davis Cup this year.  I obviously made myself available for every tie.  You know, really bought in, really gave everything, we are doing so well.   
So, you know, it is my goal to win the Davis Cup, so we'll see.   
 Q.  Even after the injury, you were still able to smash down 130-mile-an-hour serves.  How much discomfort were you in when you were doing that?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't think I was serving 130 towards the last two games, was I?   
 Q.  No, but in the fourth set...  
NICK KYRGIOS: I lost the set 6-1.   
 Q.  You were still hitting nicely.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I lost the set 6-1.  Did I look healthy?   
 Q.  I'm asking you what kind of discomfort you were in.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Well, my arm felt numb.  What else do you want me to say?  My arm is not broken, but it was sore.  Yeah.   
 Q.  You just mentioned that you have had good times, bad times, whatever.  Are you talking specifically just to health or talking about focus and just the general year?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, obviously I'm not having a shocking year.  Obviously in this scheme of things I'm not having the greatest year for what maybe people, like I should have done, but, I mean, the last three months, I mean, has been a nightmare, really.   
I have said it before.  I had such a good Indian Wells, Miami, and then Davis Cup, we had a good win over America, and then, you know, things just went downhill from there really.   
Yeah, I mean, I'm not -- obviously I'm disappointed I lost today.  It's not the end of the world.  I will get over it in probably half an hour.  I will get food and watch the matches.  It is what it is.   
 Q.  Doubles, Nick?  Press ahead if you can?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, the only reason I play doubles is because of my partner.  Obviously Matty Reid, he's been helping me for this whole year, and, you know, I know it's big for him to play the US Open dubs.   
I don't know.  I'm the type of guy that would probably help someone out.   
 Q.  You wished John good luck.  What can you tell us about him?  
NICK KYRGIOS: He's always been pretty nice to me.  John, I know he's obviously had some physical struggles, as well, had shoulder surgery.  He's been struggling over the last year or two.  I know he always gives his best effort.  He's always just, you know, competing.   
I get happy when I see someone like that that's been through a lot.  You know, he's got a good opportunity.  Obviously the draw opens up for him now.  God knows where he could be in a couple of days if he competes.   
I mean, obviously a fellow Aussie, as well.  I'm not going to be jealous or envious of anyone that's still in the draw or anything like that.  I'm happy for him.   
 Q.  John was very complimentary about the relationship you have on the court, and Kokkinakis was there to support you.  Do you feel the support from inside the tennis community?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Inside the tennis community, like competitors?   
 Q.  Australia.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I'm great friends with all the Aussie guys.  Yeah, I mean, I'm really good friends with Kokk, really good friends with Thompson.  I'm friends with everyone.  They know me as a person.  They know I'm not too serious, and I'm happy for them if they do well.   
 Q.  I think you had a deal with Sebastien through this tournament.  Do you know whether you'll continue working with him, or what's going to happen from here?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know, honestly.  I'm not good enough for him.  You know, he's very dedicated.  He's an unbelievable coach.  You know, he probably deserves a player that is probably more dedicated to the game than I am.  He deserves a better athlete than me.   
 Q.  How close were you from retiring?  Was it going through your mind a bit, or this was the US Open and you were going to finish it?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I wasn't thinking about retiring.  I mean, the least I could do is give the guy respect to finish off the match.   
 Q.  In what way aren't you good enough for Sebastien?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I'm not dedicated to the game at all.  You know, he's helped me a lot, especially with the training, in training sessions.   
But, I mean, he needs -- he probably -- I mean, I don't really -- I mean, you know what I mean.  There are players out there that are more dedicated, that want to get better, that strive to get better every day, the one-percenters.  I'm not that guy.   
 Q.  Do you see a time when you could be that dedicated?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.  I always get asked the question, like -- I don't know.  I really don't know.  Probably not, honestly not.   
 Q.  Do you want to be that dedicated?  Would you like to?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I wasn't doing anything different.  Like in Cincinnati, I was not doing anything different.  I was probably less dedicated than I was this week.  I was playing basketball at Lifetime Fitness every day for two hours.  Like I played an hour of basketball before I played David Ferrer in the semifinal.  I was going to ice cream, like this Graeter's place getting a milk shake every day.  I was less dedicated.  And this week I was dedicated, and my shoulder starts hurting.  I don't know.   
 Q.  How much of a concern is it that your body just keeps letting you down in so many key moments?  Are you thinking of maybe taking a few days off to figure things out?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know.  I don't know.  I keep letting people down.  So I don't know.  I really don't know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT