WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 20, 2017
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/N. Kyrgios   
6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough loss today, but you said three weeks ago, struggles, and now a Masters 1000 final.  What's your biggest takeaway from the week?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, looking back from where I was a couple weeks ago, I would have never thought I would have had my first 1000 event final.   
So I'm pretty happy with the result.  You know, from where I was to here, it's just been amazing.  It couldn't have gone to a more deserving player.  He's really got his game back on track.  I think he's starting to be where I think I pictured him being.   
He struggled I think a year ago with his game, but now he's playing some really good tennis.  I'm just really happy to see.   
I'm feeling good.  I'm pretty excited for the US Open.  I'm just happy, being out there and getting some wins again.   
 Q.  Congrats on a nice run.  Wonderful tournament, and you gave the fans a lot of thrills here.  Today you served 14 aces and one double going into your last service game.  One ace, three doubles in the last one.  What didn't go right in that last service game?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I was feeling it, to be honest.  I was feeling it physically.  I was pretty tired.  I played a lot of matches this week.  I haven't been used to that, to be honest.   
You know, it's been my first week in a while where I have played, you know, five tough back-to-back matches, and obviously that day when I played two in one day was tough.   
I was feeling it.  I thought he definitely looked fresher out of the two of us.  He's unbelievably fit.  He trains very, very hard.   
I trained with him in Montreal after we played a singles match.  He was out there for an hour and a half.  It was just his easy session.  I was absolutely dripping.  I was struggling.  I was, like, man, this guy works like a beast.  Just shows where he's at.   
I was obviously, you know, not -- I wasn't feeling unbelievable out there, but, you know, he played really well.  I didn't think he was -- he barely missed a ball and he was moving -- he's a great athlete.  He deserved that today, 100%.   
 Q.  This gives you a taste now for what it takes to win something like this.  What were your thoughts after the match?  Maybe you talked to Matt or your mother about that.  I'm just curious about...  
NICK KYRGIOS: I most definitely did not talk to them about that.  I was, like, I want to get out of here and go get some ice cream or something.  When he was serving for it at 5-All, I was like, Oh, I'm so close to going to Graeter's and getting a milkshake.  That's all I was thinking (Laughter.)   
And I'm probably going to go play some basketball at Lifetime Fitness, as well.   
 Q.  That first match, especially against Goffin, was a tough one for you physically.  Coming through those matches the way you did, what do you feel physically or emotionally you're proudest of this week?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Probably just emotionally and mentally.  Where I was three weeks ago, I wasn't in a good place at all.  I mean, I was down 6-3, 3-Love to Tennys Sandgren, and now I'm in the finals of a Masters event.  I think that's a very Nick Kyrgios thing to do.   
Yeah, I mean, just -- I don't know.  I really don't know.  It's crazy.  I was just not -- I was not in a good place.  I don't know how I'm here, to be honest.  I really don't know.  It's a miracle.   
 Q.  Angelique Kerber spoke earlier in the week about needing to learn to say no, and she's learning how to take care of herself in that way.  Does that resonate or mean anything to you?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Learning to say no to what?   
 Q.  Well, all the demands once you became more well known, more popular.  You're obviously a very popular player on the tour.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I guess, but there are worser things in the world than being popular, I guess.  I mean, we're all pretty blessed, I feel.  Demands or -- I mean, go to somewhere in Africa where they can't even drink water and tell me that we have got a tough life.   
 Q.  Best result of your career, aside from titles, of course, at this stage.  Do you feel this could be a launching pad for you going forward, rest of your career?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I have won tournaments and they have said that same thing.  Tokyo, like, yeah, great launching pad, and next week in Shanghai had a horrible experience.   
I'm not going to say anything.  I'm going to try to stick to it and not think of launching pad or building blocks or anything.  I'm just going to try to take it day by day.   
 Q.  Are you having fun out there, though?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I had some fun this week.  First round was really a struggle and obviously got through a tough one with Dolgopolov.  Gradually, I just feel back to where I should feel on a tennis court.  I wasn't enjoying it at all, didn't want to be out there.  External things were affecting how I was feeling.  It really didn't make sense.   
Right now, I lost today but I feel great.  I feel great where I'm at right now.   
 Q.  After this, you said tomorrow you're heading to Kansas.  What do you expect when you go there with Jack Sock?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, he's probably going to be training.  I think I need to take a couple days off.  I'll probably watch him train a little bit.   
He sent me some pictures of his house.  He has two dogs.  I'm really looking forward to it.  We have been talking about it for a while.  I'm just looking forward to relaxing.   
I'm pretty close with his friends, as well.  I'm just looking forward to having a couple days off and chilling out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT