ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Nick Kyrgios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. ANDERSON/N. Kyrgios   
5-7, 6-4, 6-1, 6-2   
MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Nick, you said there was a bit of a pop on your serve midway through the match.  How much, if any at all, did injury play a part?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I could notice it a little bit, but I think -- I mean, obviously, disappointing just to lose, but I haven't -- to be fair, I mean, my preparation for the clay court season hasn't been great.  I feel like I've way underdone coming into the French.   
You know, I thought he played pretty well, though.  He was really aggressive off returns.  I mean, it's the type of match where I'm not going to get much rhythm.  I was good for a set and a half.   
But I haven't really put together any good training in the last couple weeks.  Obviously, just trying to manage some niggles.  And, obviously, I haven't really structured any good training in the last five weeks.  So I don't think I was match-ready to play best of five sets, but he played well today.  So he was too good.   
 Q.  A set and 4-2 up, was it totally physical what happened out there today?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Not all physical.  I thought my game plan to start was very good.  And then I thought he just had to play a bit bigger to get back in the match.  And I'm tactically up for a game in the -- when I was serving at 4-3, I had switched off tactically and that obviously gave him confidence to just keep swinging and then it kind of went from there, a snowball effect, really.   
 Q.  You said a few days ago that your body needs some rest but it's a tough time with the grass court season coming up.  Is there any time for rest or is it necessary?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I think at the same time I need rest, but I need the practice as well.  I haven't been hitting enough tennis balls.   
You know, I feel like I'm serving -- for my first round I was serving -- and I only played best of three.  I only played three sets and my shoulder was sore.  So, you know, usually at Grand Slams I don't really feel my body at all, really.  That's just a sign that my body is a bit underdone.   
 Q.  Question regarding French tennis player Maxime Hamou, I think it's pronouncing.  You're the same age.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Doesn't seem like it.  Sorry.   
 Q.  You maybe saw that.  Nearly same.  You maybe saw that he -- what he have done, and can you tell me something about his attitude toward journalist.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I mean, I thought it was pretty out of line.  It was pretty disrespectful.  I mean, yeah.  I mean, I think we all think the same of it.  I don't think anyone thinks it's cool or, you know, it was like -- you know, it was completely out of line.   
 Q.  So how's your mental space going into Wimbledon?  Do you think you can get your body in shape and make a big charge?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I mean, yeah, I think I can.  But, you know, I've still got doubles here as well.  I think it's good just to keep playing core matches, just keep playing.   
I think me and Thomo can do well here as well, I'm just going to focus on that for now.  I don't know.  I was going to maybe go home after this week if I didn't do so well here.  But obviously winning a round and still in doubles, it's cutting the time pretty slim.  So I don't really know what I'm going to do next week.  I'm not sure.   
 Q.  With the racquet was that just frustration of what you were feeling at the time?  Was that purely frustration?  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, obviously, yeah.  Obviously, it was frustration.  Like, I'm not going to do that just because I feel like it.   
Yeah, I mean, it kind of feels good.  It just kind of feels like a whole build up and then it kind of just goes.  Yeah.  I mean, yeah.   
 Q.  Talking about the doubles, in one sense how important would the doubles be?  It gives you a bit more match time on the court and, you know, a little bit more relaxing with a friend on the other side of the court as well.  
NICK KYRGIOS: Uh-huh.  What's the question?   
 Q.  How important is the doubles going to be?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I think it's good.  I think the last couple years I haven't played that much doubles.  And I've gotten into pretty -- especially after, for instance, this week, if I didn't have doubles, I would be pretty negative for the next week or so.   
But tomorrow I'm not playing for myself.  I'm playing for Thomo as well.  And he's the type of guy that will try his best for every single match.  So tomorrow I know that I'm going to have to just put my singles out of the way and get back out there and compete.  And I think that's a positive, just getting straight back out there and trying to get better, I guess.   
 Q.  Nick, you haven't been with a coach for a couple of years and now that you have Grosjean in your corner, after a loss like this, how does it compare to have someone to talk to you, or are you still keeping to yourself maybe after a loss?  How does it work?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah, I mean, he was just chatting to me in the locker room.  But, I mean, he hasn't really been working with me that much.  It's not to the point where, you know, we're doing every training session together and he knows me great.   
Obviously, he just says the right things after that kind of loss.  He knows that things have been difficult for me.  But he knows firsthand that I haven't put in enough work to have gone deep here.  The whole team knows it.   
You know, and the surprising this is I was in a winning position today and I still could have won.  It doesn't even matter how underdone I was.  I still could have won.  He knows -- we both know that I've just got to practice.  You know, during Indian Wells and Miami time, I was practicing a lot.   
Yeah, I mean, after my grandpa passing, I just lost a lot of motivation to do anything, really.   
 Q.  You just said that you didn't have time and there were other reasons for not preparing yourself at your best.  Now you still have one month before Wimbledon, which is important, I mean, if I may mention.  Do you think one month is enough to get back the preparation you need for best of five on grass which are a little bit different than on clay?  
NICK KYRGIOS: Yeah.  I think it's enough time.  I think there is.   
 Q.  Sort of what are you planning to do to, I mean, just practice or are there any specific...  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, I've said it five times.  I have doubles tomorrow.  So yeah, I don't really know yet until I lose here.  What happens if I win this tournament in doubles?  I don't know.  So I can't give you an answer yet.   
 Q.  When frustration builds up and you do want to break your racquet, which lots of guys on tour do, how much of that is letting that out for yourself and how much is wanting to show people that you are frustrated?  Just, you know, show the crowd that you are trying to work your way back and you are frustrated.  Because there was a kid behind you when you were sitting down with the biggest smile on his face as you were doing it and, like, nodding another rhythmically with you smacking the racquet.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I don't know if that's the best role model you want.   
But, I mean, I'm not trying to show anybody really my frustration.  I just do it for myself.   
I've been doing it my whole career, really.  I think, yeah, it's just a habit now.   
 Q.  Yesterday the American player Steve Johnson spoke in a very beautiful way about the loss of his father.  Would you just tell us about your grandfather, what he meant to you, if you don't mind.  
NICK KYRGIOS: I mean, it was -- yeah, when I was back home, it was tough.  I mean, I can't talk about it.  I can't.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT