NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 2013
Cael Sanderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're with the head coach of the victorious Penn State Nittany Lions, Cael Sanderson. 
Coach, how was this different than the other National Championship that you have won at Penn State? 
COACH SANDERSON:   It's been a long week.   Well, we're super happy.   Our guys did a great job.   Back and forth.   Our guys came through.   I think every year is a little‑‑ you have different challenges.   It certainly doesn't get any easier.   The first one was super special.   It doesn't get easier. 
I'm really proud of these guys, I guess, for the effort and what they did.   They went out there, and they scored the most points.   That's what wins.   It was a great tournament.   I think Oklahoma State had a very good tournament.   Made it a lot of fun.

Q.   Coach, talk about Ed's and especially Quentin's wins. 
COACH SANDERSON:   Well, Ed did ‑‑ I think all of our finalists, they just wrestled.   They wrestled great matches.   I'm real proud of them. 
Ed goes out there and gets a major decision.   I don't know if he‑‑ he doesn't usually know what's going on with the team scoring‑‑ well, he does.   He actually says, I don't know.   But to get that major, that was a big deal.   To get a major decision in the NCAA finals, it just shows you not only a talented kid, but he's a tough kid.   He's a great character. 
He's just an extreme talent, but what I like about Ed is just he's got a glow about him.   You look in his eyes, and he's sparkling, and he's got that smile.   He's just a good kid. 
And Quentin Wright, tough match, tough kid, tough opponent.   He did a fantastic job.   That was a clutch match, obviously.

Q.   One of the toughest things of being a head coach, a championship coach, not everyone wins.   David Taylor, your thoughts about that? 
COACH SANDERSON:   It's my job to make sure they're ready.   Each one, each individual.   I'm not sure I did a very good job.   That's the hard part as a coach because you're always, man, we just won the Nationals, but we had guys that didn't reach their goal. 
Nico wrestled a great match and ended up getting beat there at the end, but he wrestled great.   And guys are leaders.   Nico Megaludis is a leader.   He started with off with a big win in the semifinals, big wins in the quarterfinals, and having that guy with that type of leadership of consistency and just toughness, that's why we won the team championship. 
David Taylor, he led Penn State to three National Championships through his great leadership, his hustle, his love of competing, leading with a passion and bonus points.   He's made this sport a better sport, and I couldn't be more proud of the kid.   He's great.   He's an awesome, awesome wrestler and an even better leader. 
Matt Brown, he did an awesome job.   He came out‑‑ I don't know what he was seeded at the Big Ten, but he was down there a ways, 6, 7, a good kid, won the tournament, helped us win the championship there.   Then he leads this team getting in the finals and having an overtime match. 
Those guys are‑‑ that's what it takes.   It takes character, and that's what this sport is all about.   It's just being tough. 
THE MODERATOR:   We have time for one last quick question.

Q.   Cael, you called this is the showcase of the sport a couple times.   With the looming prospect of wrestling being taken out of the Olympics Games, would an event like this, when you have great matches, 25, 33 making history, up and down the lineup, good matches, how do you see this as maybe lending itself to the effort to maybe raise some awareness for the sport? 
COACH SANDERSON:   You don't have to‑‑ I mean, just take a look.   Wrestling is doing well.   Excellent matches.   Our kids are getting better and better technically.   This is a different generation.   This is a generation that's growing up with full wrestling on YouTube, and they can see technique, and they can watch every match.   We're seeing that in their technique. 
But wrestling is‑‑ there's not very many things in this world that will teach kids and teach them to be tough and to rise up when they win and when they lose. 
So it's critical for us as a world and a country to keep this sport strong.   It really represents‑‑ I don't want to get all deep, but I love wrestling. 
Wrestling is strong.   It's a worldwide sport.   It belongs in the Olympic Games. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, that's it.   We've got to go.   Thank you, Coach.   Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT