INFINITI PRO SERIES: dreamerscandles.com 100
October 11, 2003
Thiago Medeiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THIAGO MEDEIROS:  It was an exciting race.  I had a very good car.  I didn't want to win the race for myself, but also for the team.  I tried to run the best race I could.  I had a very good car.  I could run high, low, everywhere.  And I thought just be patient and wait for the last lap of the race. 

THIAGO MEDEIROS:  I had a great car.  I was a little bit disappointed earlier in the year with the car we had.  And I tried not to over drive it.  And when you have a good car, you just go out there and drive it.  And then you go out and look forward to the next week.  And this week I had a very good car.  So I was very confident.  And I was just trying to make the best that I could.  And I did. 

THIAGO MEDEIROS: Well you always try to drive good enough to win one of those races.  But if you don't have the good luck like those guys had before, you know, I was just trying to find my space and never give up.  Just follow my dreams.


Q.   (Inaudible.)

THIAGO MEDEIROS:  I was very confident like I told you.  I always like to carry the flag with me and just wait for the right moment to take that flag off my body.  And it was very nice for my country.  And I had a very hard lifetime, I'm so far away from my parents, and now I've realized my dreams.  And I was just trying to give my family some hope.  Just working, training every day.  Like with the workshop and trying to find something new.  And it's hard to say in English now.  But I have to explain it to, it's hard to explain myself at this moment. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)

THIAGO MEDEIROS:  I'm not sure what I'm going to do next year.  Whether I want to be in this series again.  We set up the car very well, but we didn't make so many bad decisions and we didn't have a very good car.  And to be in the front and win, one of those weeks, it would have been nice.  And that's what I told you before, we didn't have a good car and I was just trying to bring back some points for the championship.  And now I have a very good car and so we just went out there and made a little change and it made a big difference and it paid off.  And I had a very good time here all week. 

THIAGO MEDEIROS:   Sure.  My mother just called me a little while ago.  My father is there.  And for sure she is very proud.  She's very proud.  And she's very happy.  And as I said, I'm very happy.

THIAGO MEDEIROS:  Thank you, everybody.  I hope to be here again next year.  And I made so many friends here and hopefully things will go better next year.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT