UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Sam Acho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. You can never wipe a smile off your face. I guess this time of the year we can't wipe a smile off your face. 
 SAM ACHO: It's Christmastime, you know.

 Q. What did you ask for for Christmas? Do you have a favorite Christmas memory? 
 SAM ACHO: What am I asking for? I'm trying to get maybe like fix up my car a little bit, and maybe some iTunes gift Cards. Whatever. We'll see. Haven't decided exactly yet.

 Q. Did you ask for rims or something? 
 SAM ACHO: Not rims. Maybe a new sound system or something. A little upgrade.

 Q. What is your favorite gift you've ever gotten? 
 SAM ACHO: I think I'd have to say when I was a kid, 11 or so, getting that new Madden was always fun. Playing with my brother, we'd always play each other. 

 Q. How exciting is it for you, your brother, your parents, just your whole family going into this? 
 SAM ACHO: It's going to be really exciting. It's the BCS National Championship game. The biggest game of the year. We're happen hey the whole family's going to be able to go. 

 Q. What's more exciting, a National Championship or an All American? 
 SAM ACHO: Academic All American is great, but National Championship, it's a team thing, so it's more exciting. 

 Q. Describe this match-up, the great tradition, talk about it. 
 SAM ACHO: Alabama has a great team. Heisman Trophy winner. We have a great team as well. Great offense, great special teams, so it's definitely going to be a battle.

 Q. Bragging rights on the line? They're hyping up their defense, you're hyping up your defense. The running backs, talk about it? 
 SAM ACHO: You look at Alabama, the number one ranked team in the nation. Great receivers, great running backs, great O-line. We have a great team as well. So it will definitely be a battle.

 Q. Talk about Ingram and just what you've seen of him? 
 SAM ACHO: He's a really, really good back. He finds the hole, and he hits it hard. So he doesn't even have to get a lot of hats on him to bring him down.

 Q. Do you have any memories of '05 game or any other Pasadena magic out there? 
 SAM ACHO: The '05 game was a great game with Vince Young playing the way he did, and the whole team playing the way they did. So those are my memories of that game.

 Q. Can you talk about playing against a running back that won the Heisman, and you guys being the underdog?
 SAM ACHO: There are some similarities. It's four years later though, we're a different team. But there are some similarities.

 Q. Do you embrace the underdog role, one versus two? Any of that matter to you? 
 SAM ACHO: Honestly, all that matters is what we know we can do in the locker room. So all the stuff on the outside doesn't really effect us.

 Q. What has the workout been like? Can you talk about that? And how much you guys have gone back to basics, not so much on Alabama. But how tough has it been? 
 SAM ACHO: It's been a lot of fundamentals, going back to the basics. Getting your work right, your technique right. Making sure we do things the right way before we focus on Alabama. 

 Q. Has it been fun? 
 SAM ACHO: It's been fun, but it's definitely been tough.

 Q. Putting the fun? 
 SAM ACHO: Putting the tough in fun, that's for sure (laughing).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT