WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2009
Dinara Safina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. SAFINA/A. Mauresmo
  4-6, 6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Good evening, everyone. Dinara Safina. Questions, please. 

 Q. How did it feel under the new roof? It was lucky for you, wasn't it?
 DINARA SAFINA: Lucky? I don't know. If I won, then that means that I was lucky. It was really nice atmosphere to play under the roof, because somehow you feel a little bit more the crowd. Even the crowd also wanted the roof, so it was like unbelievable atmosphere on the court. 

 Q. How was to it play? Did the grass change? The overheads? How did the light feel?
 DINARA SAFINA: Actually, you know, like I didn't had any problems, you know, to adjust. I felt pretty comfortable. 

 Q. Did the half-hour break affect you at all? 
 DINARA SAFINA: No, because I started very good after. Okay, in the third set, uhm, I let it go to 3-Love, but still I think I was playing good. I just was missing. I was going for the right shots, but just was missing a little bit. 
 Then luckily I could turn the match around. That shows that I was missing, and I put them all together in and I was there in the match. 

 Q. Did you enjoy the experience on Centre Court more once the roof was on than before?
 DINARA SAFINA: I don't know. I think in overall the match I enjoyed because I have been missing already these kind of matches, you know, for a while. Really she pushed me to play my best tennis. That I won the match playing my best, not that you win the match by fighting, you know, or overrun somebody. But I played my best to win this match, so I'm really happy. 

 Q. You are now the best in the world. There's a lot of Russian players dominating tennis. Can you explain why this is?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I don't know, I think we just -- first of all, we're strong mentally. You know, we all wants to be the best, you know. So when somebody passes, the new one to catch him. 
 You know, it's like a match: each other pushing you to play the best. Like today, she pushed me to play my best today. The same when somebody else is passing you, it makes you work harder to pass her. It pushes you to the limits every time. 

 Q. Does your knee continue to improve?
 DINARA SAFINA: No, it's getting better, better every day. So, you know, I have no problems playing. So, you know, I'm really happy. 

 Q. What do you know about Sabine Lisicki?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I played her last year at the beginning of the year. It was last year, at the beginning of the year. It was completely different story. She's a great player. I think she's enjoying. She's young. She has nothing to lose. 
 So I'd like to go out there, and first of all, revenge for the last year in Australia. Play same like I finished the match playing my best tennis.

 Q. You're feeling confident about this tournament now?
 DINARA SAFINA: I'm feeling pretty good, you know. Day to day I'm feeling better and better, enjoying more and more playing on grass. 

 Q. Amélie just said that she thought that the ball was flying a little bit more once the roof was closed. Did you sense any change?
 DINARA SAFINA: By me wasn't flying. Was flying in (smiling). 

 Q. Would you like Wimbledon now to always have the roof closed?
 DINARA SAFINA: No. A little bit of everything. You know, it's also nice to play with the -- I mean, the weather is really unbelievable. 
 It's a little bit of rain, a little bit of sun that you can get, and then roof closed and then it's also fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT