WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2009
Dinara Safina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. SAFINA/K. Flipkens
  7-5, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You seemed to be enjoying yourself out there. Do you feel particularly relaxed in this tournament so far?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I think I played pretty good match. I was really -- a little bit I got tight in the first set because it was a little bit close. Like she had set point in the first set.   
 But once I had set behind, I think I played much better in the second set.   
  
  Q. Do you feel now that grass is perhaps your best surface to try and win this Grand Slam?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, this year definitely it's my best result in the professional. You know, I'm getting better. Honestly, I was saying before, like I'm feeling day to day better.   
 Even like when I hit in the practice, I'm feeling every day more and more comfortable. So let's see how far I can enjoy the grass.  
  
  Q. You're going to play Mauresmo next. Are you surprised to be playing her?   
 DINARA SAFINA: No, this year she's playing very good. I think she's back in her best shape. She likes playing on grass. I mean, she won Wimbledon.   
 So I think it's gonna be not an easy match. So I'm looking forward. I just want to focus on myself, play my game. Let's see who's gonna be stronger on the day.  
  
  Q. Are you going to keep smiling?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Until I'm smiling, I'm winning. If you don't see my smiling, it's a bad sign.   
  
  Q. This is the only major where all of the fourth round is played on one day, men and women. From a fan's perspective, can you talk about what that must be like with so many great matches on one day.   
 DINARA SAFINA: I never played here the second week, so this is for me new experience. When I'll play that day, I will tell you. But honestly I never got so far in this, so...   
 It's true, it's going to be many good matches. The people will have to pick the right ones to watch.   
  
  Q. Your brother is going to be leaving the game, a wonderful character. Do you think this sport will miss him?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, for sure there gonna be somebody else same as him. You know, maybe it will take a while. I know it was Goran, the one people really love to watch, because he was similar personality. Then came my brother. For sure there gonna be somebody else.   
 Nobody can be same as the other one, but close to him, or maybe even more entertainer.  
  
  Q. So someone will come up with that free spirit? You think that will happen?  
 DINARA SAFINA: But now from the top 10 I cannot pick anybody like this. I mean, I would say Tsonga is very entertaining to watch. He's really like jumping around. A little bit different style than Marat. He's pumping himself. Marat will show more his emotions, even frustration.   
  
  Q. And Novak Djokovic tried with his imitations, but many didn't like it. And then he stopped. Did you think that was sad?  
 DINARA SAFINA: No, I mean, it's fun. Maybe some people just think it's a little bit too much. But, you know, you have to take it as a joke. You know, he doesn't do it in a bad way. He makes like that people laugh. So just you have to accept it and laugh just with him.   
  
  Q. Jankovic started the year No. 1 and she lost today. This time last year, Ana Ivanovic was No. 1. Now she's world No. 13. Is there a sense that you realize your form right now could go away as quickly as it has for them, and that you have to grasp it and this is your best shot?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Sorry?   
  
  Q. Jelena and Ana were No. 1, and they lost that very quickly. Is there a sense as world No. 1 you feel your form could go as quickly as their form did and this is your best shot here?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I cannot talk about them, you know. But, you know, it took me a while to get the No. 1 spot. So now, you know, I want to focus. I don't want to, let's say, interrupt with anything else. I want to focus on the tennis.   
 I don't want to do any photo shooting or another... Okay, if I'm not in the tournament, if I have time, yes, I will do. But for me, still firstly the tennis is a privilege for me.   
  
  Q. Were you shocked Jelena lost?   
 DINARA SAFINA: It's disappointing, yes. I was surprised. But I think Melanie played really good tennis. Maybe Jelena didn't expect she play that good. I think she had some health problems. Not really that I know what happened exactly.   
  
  Q. Of the Russian players, some of you go through the Russian system and some have gone through like an American system. Is there any competition between people coming from this different kind of training?  
 DINARA SAFINA: No, not really.   
  
  Q. We saw Svetlana go out today. Obviously you're No. 1 because of your consistency. Is that something you're proud of, how week in and week out you're really there most of the time?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Of course. You know, I guess sometimes the people say, yeah, I'm No. 1, but I don't have a Grand Slam. But I'm always there. You know, it's not that you win one tournament and then you lose four first rounds, you know, and one by luck you can win.   
 I'm consistently there. I'm consistently doing my results. I'm sure if day to day like this, one day I will get the Grand Slam and nobody can talk anymore that I'm No. 1 without Grand Slam.  
  
  Q. Does that bother you?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Annoying. But what can I do? They keep asking this.   
  
  Q. You know what you can do. But do you think you can win here?  
 DINARA SAFINA: You know, everything is possible. There is nothing impossible in this. You know, day to day I'm playing better and better. You know, I will take one match at a time. Definitely for me it's less pressure here because nobody expecting me this.   
 So for me it's better. I play. I go out there. I enjoy. You know, till now it's working.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT