INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 6, 2009
Dinara Safina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. SAFINA/J. Zheng
  5-7, 6-1, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Well done on getting through.   
 DINARA SAFINA: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Did you come off court thinking to yourself, I did really well and battled through from 5-2 down, or were you thinking, How on earth did I get into that position in the first place?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, there is two points. Of course I'm happy that I was still able to change the match. From 5-2 down I started at least to play a little bit better.   
 And, of course, just how could I even go to this point to be 5-2 down. I mean, I think after 5-2 she hardly could touch the ball until 6-5, and then again I became too passive. I'm just frustrating that I'm not playing my game at all.   
  
  Q. For someone who is the world No. 1 and has just won a tennis match, you look quite down. Can you explain why that is? Is it because you set yourself higher standards than that?  
 DINARA SAFINA: No, it's just that, I mean, I'm practicing and I'm playing great and aggressive, and suddenly I come on the court and it's completely like 360 degrees completely different person playing on the court. I just don't understand what's going on like with me, like what is it with my brain.   
 I mean, every time I go on the court I go, Okay, I'm trying to play aggressive, and I do totally opposite other thing. Way too passive and not the way that I have to play. This is just too frustrating and too sad.  
  
  Q. Have you been able to understand why that is?   
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, definitely I think everything is new situation for me, also. I mean, first time No. 1, playing, and everybody expect me to win.   
 But is not an excuse. I mean, I have to be stronger than this and knowing what I have to do. I mean, I go on the court and I know that I have to go for my shots and play them like I did at 5-2.   
 But I didn't have to come to the point 5-2, especially after winning 6-1 the second. I mean, I had to go and play like this, and then suddenly I play again totally other game.   
  
  Q. Aside from your displaying a great fighting spirit, was there anything positive to draw on from the way you played today?  
 DINARA SAFINA: That on match point I hit at least once the ball. At least then. I went for my match point, and I hit it.   
  
  Q. Do you wonder with you being this upset what the other players in the world feel, that they're all worse than you because you're the best at the moment?   
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I'm upset with myself. This has nothing to do. Because I know I can play better, and just I'm upset that why it's not me playing on the court.   
 This is just what is really upsetting me. But I don't care about the other ones, how they feel.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT