SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2009
Dinara Safina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/D. Safina
  6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Any thoughts on the match today? You made a lot of mistakes. What was going on?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I think just bad match for me. It was just a disaster match. I mean, I just started to play a little bit better at 6-1, 3-Love. I gave everything in her hands, but it's too late. 
 She's a great player. She played very good, but from my side, I just can say it was sad the way I played today. It was nothing in my body.
 Just basically I wasn't playing. I mean, I just played the second set.

 Q. What did she do well?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, was not much to do well if one doesn't play, so the other one, she just have to bring the ball back.
 I would say too bad from my sides.

 Q. Did all the rain delays affect your concentration and make it more difficult?
 DINARA SAFINA: No. You know, I'm experienced enough so it has nothing to do. There is no excuse. Just very bad from my side.

 Q. Are you surprised by the way you played, or did you feel it going into the tournament that you weren't quite on top of your game?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, actually, it's strange, you know. I feel pretty good practicing. Serving great. Once I step on the court in the match, changes. I've very passive. I just, I don't know. I mean, it's disappointing, you know. I'm not playing my tennis. I'm pushing myself and practicing hard. 
 I just want to have some break now, you know. I will have at least a week off and just do other things now and just step back a little bit, rest, and with a new, you know, new will to go back and practice. 
 Because I'm just going, going, and just tired. I just want to get back this like hungriness for the tennis.

 Q. Do you feel it's just been one thing coming after another and you don't have time to stop?
 DINARA SAFINA: Yeah, I just want to stop, step back, and just take a breath, you know. I'm going from tournament to tournament. One day here in Moscow, one day in Monaco, five days there, and I'm just -- I just want to be at least two weeks somewhere. Just rest, you know, like, okay, I have two weeks of practice. I can sit down and practice, you know. This is what I want to do.

 Q. You had a chance to get to No. 1 this week. Is it even more disappointing for you because of that? 
 DINARA SAFINA: Of course, you know, it's very disappointing. That's what I'm playing for. I want to be there. Suddenly I go to the court, and I don't even fight for it. So it's just bad behavior from my side. The champions, they don't do this. 
 So I have to -- you know, it's a good punishment, you know, for myself. So I have to get smarter. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT