BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 18, 2009
Dinara Safina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/D. Safina
  6-7, 6-1, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What was the difference in the match in your opinion?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I played pretty good the first set, especially on the tiebreaker. I was aggressive. 
 From the second set, I just gave all into her hands, so she started to dominate. Especially with her, I cannot do this. She's a very aggressive player, so she was just better than me. 
 In third set at 3-1, 30-15, and again I gave everything into her hands. I just went away from my game every time I was up.

 Q. She's part of a group of teenagers that seem to be doing well, Wozniacki, Cornet, Radwanska. Do you see this group able to make an impact on the tour right now?
 DINARA SAFINA: Oh, she's a great player. I never play against the other ones. She improved a lot from last year. 
 But still I had that match in my hands, so just disappoint from my side.

 Q. What happened differently today compared to the other times you've played her?
 DINARA SAFINA: Just the other times I've been aggressive and I never let her into the match. Today she -- today I give this. She been aggressive, and I was running around. 
 So this, I never did it last year.

 Q. With the No. 1 possibility, was that something you put more pressure on yourself about?
 DINARA SAFINA: No, I'm not thinking about this, you know, because if it comes, it comes. I play like this, definitely will not come. So I should change from Miami and start playing my game. 
 It's not possible I play three rounds before and I was struggling with every player that I'm playing. With everyone who I played, they had -- were either serving for the set, either set points, you know. I mean, I have to finally start playing my game, because I'm not playing it. 
 And it's -- like this, it will never come, the No. 1 spot. 

 Q. You seem pretty disappointed. What do you do to sort of get yourself back up after a loss like this?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, you know, tomorrow is another day. Of course, now it's still one hour just past from the match. Of course I'm disappointing, but, you know -- it's sad, because I'm practicing good and playing good, and suddenly I come to the match and I'm completely different player playing. 
 You know, I just want for the next tournament I finally play my game and play like I've been playing like last year. Since Australia, I'm playing defensive, and it's not me. I just want to play aggressive. That's all. 

 Q. You'll have a couple of days off before you start Miami. What do you plan to do in between now and then?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, of course, I mean, I'll try to fly tomorrow to Miami, because there is a time difference, you know. Also, the weather is completely different. You know, get dressed, practice, and look forward for the tournament. 
 You know, there is another chance to do better, so that's all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT