AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2009
Dinara Safina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. SAFINA/K. Kanepi
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. First time into the fourth round here. You must be happy. 
 DINARA SAFINA: Yeah, I'm really happy. There's a first time for everything. Twice I lost in the third round. I was like this today, That is the third time. Should be the luckiest one. Actually, I'm glad I won very comfortable today. 

 Q. Your success last year obviously gives you a lot more confidence. To take away a player like that in the third round probably isn't something you could have done last year. 
 DINARA SAFINA: I'm in the top 10, some it's some other level. It's good that I could change, let's say, from my other match. Even though I won after 6-3, 6-Love, now I played a completely different game. I was much more aggressive and I was just playing my game. 

 Q. Do you feel you're gradually improving each round?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, definitely. Also the score's improving (laughter). 

 Q. You said after your last match when you play passive you don't play as well. Is that because you're getting more aggressive?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, yeah, because there is no other way. I'm not a roadrunner on the court. I cannot be as fast as some other players, but I have some other weapons. 
 If I use my power, then I have to run less. It's time to use it sometimes. 

 Q. You're feeling fitter than you've ever been. What was the turnaround with your fitness?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, it's just that, yeah, I'm fitter and I have, let's say, a tennis coach that I'm working already, let's say, almost full year, yeah, with him. 
 I have a condition coach with me traveling, so it's day by day the same person working on me. Same on tennis the court, same I'm working on my fitness. 
 That's why I think you never see me taped. 

 Q. Are you proud of the performance of the Russian girls generally? 
 DINARA SAFINA: Yeah, but actually I'm not following how many of them there are. I try to focus on myself, you know. How many there are, four or five, I'm not counting. 

 Q. You say you're focused on yourself now. Will you watch Marat tonight?
 DINARA SAFINA: Yeah. This, yes, for sure (smiling). 

 Q. Are you tipping an upset tonight for Marat against Roger, a shock result?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I hope on center court with winning, I hope he can close the same way I win today. I hope so. 

 Q. Do you see Marat a lot during this tournament?
 DINARA SAFINA: I saw him once after my first round match, and that's all. Everyone is practicing different times. And I don't like to bother him, you know, to go for dinner. He has his company. I have my company. You know, once the tournament finish, yeah, we can go all together. 
 But he goes later than me for dinner. I go earlier. He has his life. I have my life. 

 Q. So you don't stay in the same hotel?
 DINARA SAFINA: We do live in the same hotel, yeah, but we're not sleeping in the same room (laughter). 

 Q. You stay in the comfort of your room tonight or come to watch?
 DINARA SAFINA: I will come to watch him. Yeah, I want to watch him. I think it's gonna be great match. I hope they both can show their best. God knows who gonna win. 

 Q. Reaching a Grand Slam final, is the hardest thing the mental side of getting there, or is it the physical side of getting there?
 DINARA SAFINA: A little bit of everything. Let's say last year when I get to the final of French Open, I was in the final maybe not as fresh as Ana. She had only one three-setter against Jankovic in the semis. 
 Against Sharapova I had to pull out the match with the match having match point against them. Next round the same against Dementieva having match point against me. 
 I think more mentally than physically. Because if mentally you're fresh, you can help your body, you know, to give the last step. If mentally you are tired, then you go even more down and everything is going down. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT