MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2009
Dinara Safina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. SAFINA/S. Cirstea  
6-2, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. So very comfortable start to the tournament for you.   
 DINARA SAFINA: Yeah, I think it was actually not an easy match to play against her. She's a -- she goes for the shots, you know, so I had to avoid this and I had to be much more aggressive than she is. I think I did this pretty well today.  
  
  Q. You said you wanted to be more aggressive, so therefore was it a good matchup to get you into that?   
 DINARA SAFINA: Yeah, I think so. Yeah, because she pushed me to do this. Because with her if I would have a slow start I would just run and bring the ball back, yeah, she could maybe miss for a game, too, but then she would raise her level up and she would just stop me.   
 So it was good chance for me to force myself to push even more to be much more aggressive.  
  
  Q. Same tactic for you tomorrow. Going to try to keep this going through the tournament?   
 DINARA SAFINA: I mean, there is no other way if I want to play good. If I want to win a tournament I have to be aggressive, because there is no other player that you just think, Okay, I'm going to run -- okay, maybe I will win the match because the girl will be unexperienced and she will maybe get afraid of me.   
 But, yeah, I will not step forward. I will make one step back. So I better lose the match going for my shots, and then I know, okay, it was not my day. Then I win the match knowing that the girl had all the match in her hands.  
  
  Q. Some the other players coming from Hopman Cup have found it difficult to adjust from indoors to outdoors. Did you find that today?   
 DINARA SAFINA: No, because I was practicing outdoors in Perth. No, I didn't care.   
  
  Q. I guess it's been a pretty solid warm up-to the Australian Open for you. What sort of do you do for the next week or so going into the tournament?  
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, it's good, because you always try to play as much matches as you can before the Grand Slam to find -- not find the game, but just to try all the shots that I've been working.   
 Because it's the first Grand Slam after having off-season, you have to try the things that you've been working on. And now I have played many matches, and still like I feel that I can improve and feel that there is a room to be more aggressive, as I said. Just trying to play as many matches and to get 100% in Australian Open.  
  
  Q. So are you happy to have a busier preparation going into a Grand Slam?  
 DINARA SAFINA: I would say yeah, you know, because it's a first Grand Slam. If it would be US Open already, like when you have so many matches, you know, on your back like I had last year. Actually I would prefer maybe have a week off and just play US Open.   
 This year it's the first Grand Slam. Of course you want to play as much matches as you can.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT