XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 17, 2008
Dinara Safina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  E. DEMENTIEVA/D. Safina
3-6, 7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you kind of describe your emotions. I know disappointment would be one of them for losing the match. But silver medal, can you compare how that all mixes together?
 DINARA SAFINA: I'm disappointed that I lost. But from the other hand, if I see things around, what I've done, still coming from States, winning two tournaments in a row, coming here, I didn't have even just one normal day off. I was -- I took straightaway from the flight from Montréal to Europe, from Europe to here. From all this scheduling, matches, doubles, singles, from what I done, I think I just can be proud of myself. 
 And it's sad that it's not the gold medal, but it doesn't matter because I think what I've done, not many girls can do it. 

 Q. Going back to the match, something seemed to go wrong from about 5-All. You were very close to winning at 5-All. Is that just the way it goes or did something actually go wrong? Maybe the double-fault at 6-5? 
 DINARA SAFINA: I guess I got a little bit tight at that moment. I had to maybe push a little bit more myself to be aggressive. But, I mean, also I was not the freshest today physically. So everything comes together also with the serve. I mean, to serve, you have to push yourself up, to jump up. And when the legs are a little bit slow, it just doesn't go. 
 So I don't want to even think, I know why I lost the match. I have to look forward for the next tournament. 

 Q. In the third set you were 4-1, and you seemed very, very tired at this moment. Is it true?
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I mean, you can see, you know, I'm spending last week how many hours on the court. I'm not a machine, you know. I'm human being. 
 Of course, I mean, I tried to push myself. I think I can't be sad, because I did what I could do today. So I'm really -- of course, it's sad. But from other hand, even I surprised what I've done. 

 Q. Since February of this year you are working with a new coach. How important are the coaches in the silver medal and in general in your career right now, because you are winning tournaments and playing finals? 
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, I think Zeljko, he's one of the most important person in my life. What he did to me, like how he teach me to play and to control my emotions. I mean, I had many coaches, but they could not deal with this. He just changed me. I trust him fully. I think I trust him more than myself because he even tell me the things that I can do. When I start doing them, I've never even realized that I could ever do them. 
 With Dejan, he just helps me to show my game, that I'm a little bit fitter on the court, that I can play my game. But, I don't know, Zeljko, I have to thank God that I met him ever in my life. 

 Q. I know it's not a big surprise that the Russians would do well in tennis. What does it say that you went 1-2-3 here at the Olympics? 
 DINARA SAFINA: Well, it just shows how strong is the woman's tennis. I mean, you can see how many girls are in the top 10. Well, it's really nice that some of the girls, they had their chances and they use them. I think it's big thing for the Russia, that in Olympics it's all ours this year, this time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT