NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 16, 2017
Tom Pyatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tom, was last night's game an easy game to recover from, easy loss to recover from?  
TOM PYATT: It was a little disappointing, but we're going back home with a win.  That's kind of nice.  Going back home, Game 3, fans will be excited.   
I think we learned a few things from last night.  We didn't generate a lot of offense.  We played a solid defensive game, kept them on the outside.  But I think they spent a little too much time in our zone, and obviously we need a better offensive effort for Game 3.   
 Q.  Can that be a mindset that creeps in when it's a 0-0 game on the road going into the third, that it's just hope for a break but protect the --  
TOM PYATT: Yeah, maybe.  I think we were sitting back a little bit too much.  Obviously, like our defensive game, that's our strength.  We're going to stick to that.  But at the same time, we have to find a way to generate some more time in their zone and get some more pucks to the net.  Because I think we were stuck at 16 shots for a long time the second half of the game.  So we need to get some more rubber to the net.   
 Q.  Did you guys notice that on the bench?  
TOM PYATT: I looked up a couple times and still at 16.  But we're strong defensively.  Still got to find a way to get some more time in their zone.  Trying to gain some momentum and get scoring chances.   
 Q.  What are some of the positives you can take away from last night's game?  
TOM PYATT: It was a 1-0 game.  We didn't give them too much.  When they weren't in our zone, we kept them to the outside.  We had some good time in our zone.  But like I said, we kept to the outside and limited some scoring chances.   
Obviously, they're a good team.  They're going to get their shots on net.  Just got to stick to our strengths.   
 Q.  Is the hatred starting to grow between these two teams?  
TOM PYATT: Might have taken a step last night.  There were some emotions at certain points of the game.  Obviously, they're getting a little frustrated too.  Obviously, they're a defensive team, and if they're not generating a lot of chances, obviously, they can get a little frustrated too.   
But that's good for us.  Just want to keep playing strong defensively and hopefully just get a few more bounces offensively and a few more chances.   
 Q.  Is it something that becomes kind of natural in a playoff series (inaudible), but it never existed against the Rangers?  
TOM PYATT: YEAH, it wasn't too much the last series, but last night there's a few moments where guys got a little rattled, and emotions started going.  We want to stay away from that.  If they get frustrated, that's great for us.  Just want to stick to our strengths and play the same way.   
 Q.  All that Kessel gives, the highlights of Kessel being frustrated on the bench, but during the game, did you feel their frustration?  
TOM PYATT: I didn't really see that during the game, obviously, on the bench, but you just hear about it after.  People talk and they were getting frustrated.  That's a good thing.  We play hard defensively, and those offensive guys have a tough time getting through the neutral zone.  It's tough for them.  They get rattled, and that's good.   
 Q.  Talk about the impact of that physical play.  Dion was obviously at the forefront of that.  What kind of impact has he had on this team?  
TOM PYATT: He's been great.  So solid back there.  Obviously, a nice clean hit last night.  That was big.  He's just a guy that's solid all around.  Logs a lot of minutes.  He's huge for us.   
 Q.  Kessel was very animated on the bench.  So arguments happen a lot on the bench that we just don't hear about or see?  
TOM PYATT: Not too much.  I think our bench is pretty good.  Obviously, it happens sometimes.  Guys get frustrated too on our side.  That's just part of the game.  Guys talk, and they just want to get better.   
 Q.  The offensive part you need to create, does it require much adjustment, a lot of work on your part?  
TOM PYATT: I don't think so.  We just got to win those races to the loose pucks and just try to generate some more zone time and hold on to it a little bit longer.  I think we gave the puck away a bit too much last night.  Just chip it out and right back at their defensemen.   
We've got to find a way to get deep in their zone, play deep on their "D," and just get a lot of shots on net.  More guys in front too.  We didn't have a lot of net traffic last night.  That's something we can improve on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT