DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 9, 2017
Matthew Southgate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Fantastic Irish Open for you, three dropped shots across four rounds of golf and a 66 to finish, you must delighted.
MATTHEW SOUTHGATE: I'm absolutely thrilled to bits.  That's some of the best golf I ever played today.  I really stuck to it out there and I just made it so easy.  I wasn't sweating over any par putts, and I've done my job as well as I could today.  I'm really completely over the moon.
Q. What's the most pleasing thing about the game over the last four days?
MATTHEW SOUTHGATE: All of it.  I've driven the ball really well.  And I've done some work with Titleist at the start of the year to just tweak my driver and we went a little bit longer in the shaft, which they were a bit skeptical about doing, but something I had done as an amateur.
And the first ball I hit in Dubai with the new driver, I thought, wow, that's how I used to hit it.  It's taken me a few months to get it bedded in but I feel confident with that at the minute.
This afternoon, I've driven it as good as anyone can drive it.  Just every single drive's come out completely neutral.  I mean, there's not really many golf courses in the world that are that difficult, if you slap-bang it in the fairway, and I'm not a short hitter.  So we've taken the course apart, really, with driver this week.
Q. This event has been added to the Rolex Series schedule so a lot more prize money and points on offer.  All bodes well looking to The Open in two weeks.
MATTHEW SOUTHGATE: Yeah, I think so.  I think the big thing for me after last year, I wanted to prove to everybody that it wasn't a fluke and that I sort of belong out here playing, and that's obviously like a personal issue we've made; I've got that in my head when I'm playing.
The finish looks like it's definitely going to keep my card at least for next year, which at this level of golf I think is an incredible achievement for everybody.  I'm absolutely thrilled to bits to be able to be exempt into all of it again for next year.  Feel like a really lucky guy for that.  I love my job and I love all the people around the golf tour, and very blessed to be playing out here and doing this.  So I'm over the moon this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT