84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 19, 2003
Brian Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:   We thank Brian Anderson, the course superintendent, for stopping by with us today.  We just announced that we were stopping play at 11:30.  Why don't you give an overview on how the course looks and how much you guys tried to get it in shape this morning. 

BRIAN ANDERSON:   All right.  We took on almost three inches of rain in the last 15 hours, so the golf course itself has taken it very well. 

The main concern right now is just how much rainfall are we going to get in the next three to four hours.  When we assessed the situation this morning at 5:00, the golf course itself was  -- it looked very promising for a 10:00 start, till Mother Nature decided she wanted to put a little more liquid sunshine down. 

So right now we are going to try to let the fairways, bunkers drain off where we can start working with them, and just let it run her course and drain out. 

TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.


Q.  Is there anything that you can do right now while it's raining or do you have to wait?

BRIAN ANDERSON:   We have actually subsided all work for the time being.  We will be back to work around 5:00.  As soon as it stops raining, we'll be back out.


Q.  What's the forecast?

BRIAN ANDERSON:   The forecast, the rain is supposed to be out of here between 1:30 and 2:30.  At that point in time  -- the rest of the day looks great after that.  We might even see some sunshine this afternoon.

Tomorrow is a beautiful day, mostly sunny in the 70s and lower 70s.  Sunday looks even better with temperatures in the mid to upper 70s. 


Q.  How is the course going to play?

BRIAN ANDERSON:   The course is going to play long, in my eyes.  Tomorrow is going to be a tough day, rolling the fairways.  The greens and tees are in great shape.  Most of the greens this morning, walking the tees this morning, from that standpoint we are good.  I think this golf course has done very well compared to what it did three years ago, even last year, with everything we've done in anticipation for the weather. 


Q.  Conditions for tomorrow? 

TODD BUDNICK:   That's something our TOUR official can answer when he comes in. 


Q.  What's the feeling about Sunday, any idea about what you guys are going to do?

TODD BUDNICK:  Again, that's a question for the tournament director when he stops by. 

BRIAN ANDERSON:   Our main concern is getting the bunkers back up and ready to play.  They drained very well.  The bunkers itself are very  good.  The rainfall, it's almost like  -- we've got to get the bunkers up, get them air dried.  With the new bunker sands and all of the new drainage work and reconstruction we did last year,  it has definitely paid off well.  The bunkers have drained  -- I've never seen bunkers drain as well. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRIAN ANDERSON:   We still have about three bunkers  -- on No. 8 there was a ruling unable to be made because the water was laying in front of the bunker. 


Q.  What were the other two? 

BRIAN ANDERSON:   No. 7 green and the left side of 12 fairway (ph). 


Q.  Have you had this much rain? 

BRIAN ANDERSON:   Yes, as everybody knows we have been through this time and time again. 


Q.  How long ago did you guys start preparing for this type of thing, a hurricane that something might happen, a week, ten days? 

BRIAN ANDERSON:   Actually about 5:00 last night we started our quote "hurricane preparation" for the evening, which entailed removing all of our drainage caps in our fairways, putting up some silt fence, some straw barriers to slow some water down.  Really, we worked till last night getting this thing ready for Isabel. 


Q.  How late were you here last night?

BRIAN ANDERSON:  Last night was about 10:30 when we left here.  I was here at 3:00 this morning. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRIAN ANDERSON:   It needs to stop. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRIAN ANDERSON:   Nothing, no.  We started the morning squeegeeing off bunkers, squeegeeing off fairways, tees and greens that had some water on them.  But we will not do anything other than maybe go around to some of the lower spots in the fairways and if there is standing water, which once this gets through here and we get this wind up, it should go away very quick. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRIAN ANDERSON:   It's wet.  It's slippery.  Once the grass gets matted down, it's going to be tough for spectators to get around, but with this wind staying up and the sun coming out, a good day's worth, we'll be in business. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRIAN ANDERSON:   No, at this time, no. 




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT