SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2007
Carolyn Peck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Now joined by Florida head coach Carolyn Peck, players Kim Dye and Briana Phillips.   
 Coach Peck, if you could make an opening comment.   
 COACH PECK:  Well, you know, it's been a privilege and an honor to work with these young women, Briana and Kim Dye.  Seems like the newspapers have forgotten that Tasha Moorehead was also in the recruiting class that we signed with this group.   
 These two young women have stayed committed and loyal and shown a great deal of determination, because you can tell a lot of character about people, not just when times are good, but when times are bad.  And these two have shined in those times.  Both of them have had injuries that have caused them to sit out for a whole entire season.  And for them to get themselves in the position, be able to do the things that they have done, I'm extremely proud of them.   
 Today was a war and a battle.  There are things I can say and things I can't.  But I think that, you know, Vanderbilt, they played hard.  They've got a deep bench.  You know, it was a tough battle.  But the Gators, this team, they never quit, and they won't.  These two young women up here, you know what, they're going to be successful in real life because they don't quit.   
 And the returning players, they've got quite a core group now because we cleaned up a lot of good stuff, and there's a lot of good stuff that's gonna be there at Florida when I leave.  And so a lot of you may measure wins and losses by the points at the end of the game, but I think my group had a lot of victories and a lot of wins because of the things that they're doing as people, and I'm proud of 'em.   
 And, like I said, it's been a real privilege to coach this team.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Coach Peck or the players.   
  
  Q.  You drew a technical late in the first half.  Did you say something?  Can you tell us what you said, I guess?   
 COACH PECK:  No, my mom's here.   
 You know, I had some confusion of how things were being called.  I was trying to get some clarification.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about Vanderbilt's shooting.  Not surprising they shoot that well.  How tough is it to defend somebody that shoots like that?   
 COACH PECK:  They are tremendous shooters and started out with their post players shooting the ball with down screen from the guards, then went there to Caroline Williams, then Marsh got hot.  Vanderbilt is a very good team.   
 Christina Wirth is five for five from the three-point line.  Caroline Williams is four of five.  You know, that's been their MO.  Vanderbilt's always been a team that has had high field goal percentage.   
  
  Q.  Your career is not over obviously, you're very young, I'm sure you have plans.  If you don't mind, tell us if you know any gigs you might be pursuing, something you'd like to do now.  Also, if you could, in your mind for whatever reason, why your team, unlike, say, Purdue back in the day, why you couldn't take this team and compete for a national championship.   
 COACH PECK:  Well, I think it's two completely different situations.  When I took over at Purdue, the team that had been to the Final Four before.  They were perennially, you know, in it year after year.  That's something that the University of Florida hadn't been to yet.   
 And so, you know, there were some things that we had to take care of all across the board.  And, like I said, I think now there's a core group that can help springboard that to happen.   
 You know, the thing about it is, these two women that are sitting here, the ones that are in that locker room, are quality people, and they have just demonstrated, as in yesterday, the kind of heart that you got to have to compete.   
 And so now there will be seven.  Now you can add two.  Got five good ones coming in next year.  So I think that it's now in a position to where it can grow.  But there are a lot of things that have to go into that.  It's not just players.  You got to have other things to help get players.  Kids nowadays want to play in front of a crowd.  They do.  They want to be on television.  So I think that now's a great springboard for that to happen at Florida.   
 As far as where I'm going, I'm going back to Gainesville with my team.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT