SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2006
Carolyn Peck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 COACH CAROLYN PECK:  Obviously, we didn't want to be the first in this press conference because that would mean we are the team that goes home tomorrow. 
 I tell you, you have to compliment Kentucky because they came in and they came at us and attacked, understanding we played a game yesterday.  We had a game under us, and they were fresh out of the blocks.  I think they did a good job of coming at us. 
 I think Sarah Elliott did a terrific job for Kentucky in the paint getting 20 points.  Sam Mahoney really stepped up big for Kentucky today. 
 I am proud of what our team has accomplished this year.  Am I satisfied?  No.  But I think that in the SEC, I think we've had tremendous leadership from our four seniors, Sarah Lowe going the distance at the point position that she does, for Brittany and Dalila inside, and I think Danielle has had a phenomenal two games in the tournament.  Then I can't say enough about Sha Brooks.  I'm thrilled that hopefully we'll be sitting here again for three more years to come. 
 It's a disappointing loss because this team has done a terrific job this season of accomplishing some firsts or making some history so that Cathy so has something else, something good, something positive to put in our media guide.  We were really hoping we could get Florida back to the semifinals today because that hadn't been done since '98.  But just didn't happen for us today. 

 Q.  In your last game at Kentucky, your press really seemed to bother them, the changing defenses-faults.  Do you feel they handled that differently or better this time? 
 COACH CAROLYN PECK:  Well, I think fatigue played some bit of a factor of where we wanted to get to.  I have to compliment Kentucky, they did do a good job of attacking it, coming down instead of just breaking it and then setting into an offense.  They continued to stay in the attack mode.  We didn't do a good job of getting matched up. 
 Q.  What do you think of this as a site for the tournament?  Would you like to see it stay in the rotation? 
 COACH CAROLYN PECK:  I think Little Rock has done a tremendous job with the tournament.  I like the facility.  I'd like to be able to watch the games in the hotel.  The people are very supportive.  They're excited about women's basketball here.  I think they've done a terrific job of running the tournament both years that I've had the opportunity to be here. 
 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 COACH CAROLYN PECK:  As long as we're getting to play, I'll be anywhere. 
 Q.  Coach, what is it that Sam Mahoney was doing differently?  You said she stepped up.  Can you talk about what that was?  Were you prepared for that? 
 COACH CAROLYN PECK:  Well, she was very offensive-minded.  Sam is I think a very unselfish player.  A lot of times she's looking to get the ball to other people.  Today she was able -- getting late in the shot clock a few times, she was able to make things happen, being able to score and finish. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT