SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2006
Brittany Davis
Carolyn Peck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   COACH CAROLYN PECK:  This is the first time we have gotten to do this.  Coming back to play tomorrow.  I am very proud of our team.  And when you get into the SEC tournament, everybody's record is 0-0 because every team is going to come and play their best basketball, and I thought that Mississippi State did a great job with us today. 
 They gave us problems with our players which is something we take pride in.  Second-chance opportunities, shooting the ball from the perimeter very well.  My team is doing a very good job of keeping their composure, bearing down and doing what they needed to do in order to get this win today.  And we're thrilled about the opportunity to go back to the hotel and not have to pack our suitcases. 
 Q.  Can you talk about having such a balanced offense and so many weapons how that makes it hard for other teams to defend you guys? 
 COACH CAROLYN PECK:  Well, I think that that has a lot to do with the unselfishness of our team.  Because most teams will double when the ball comes to Brittany or Dalila.  That leaves opportunities on the perimeter.  Or if they have to put pressure on Sha or Danielle, then that opens up things inside. 
 I think that our team does a really good job -- something that I am very proud of them this year, is that they haven't forced too many shots.  They have all been good shots within our offense, and they play with a strategy.  And if shots hadn't fallen, we kept the emphasis on our defense, and that's what we're trying to build our confidence from.  I think everybody feels a part of that.  That defensive weight doesn't just land on one player's shoulders. 
 Q.  Talk about tomorrow's game against Kentucky, what you expect. 
 COACH CAROLYN PECK:  I expect it to be a huge battle.  Kentucky is a very strong rebounding team.  They are also are a team that has a good post game that can score inside as well as shooters on the perimeter with Ormerod, Pfeiffer and Mahoney.  They have got a good bench, a deep bench.  We split in the regular season. 
 I think that both teams are going to be extremely motivated tomorrow. 
 Q.  Brittany, talk about your three-pointer before the end of the first half.  Did that give you guys a little bit of a lift to get a shot like that? 
 BRITTANY DAVIS:  Well, honestly, I guess I just saw Danny (Santos) and I came up and we kind of almost ran into each other.  I kind of just threw it towards the basket.  I couldn't really see it.  It went in.  I didn't even know it.  She expressed it to me because I couldn't see.  People were standing over me. 
 I think definitely it kind of gave us a little bit of something in the locker room to run in with.  Little excitement.  It was just -- it was good.  It was fun. 
 Q.  Coach, talk about coming into the tournament how much the wins versus LSU and Tennessee helped your team today. 
 COACH CAROLYN PECK:  To be honest with you, I don't think it helped too much, just because, you know, the thing about it in going to those kind of games we're not expected to win and the concentration, the hype, the excitement is a little different than going into games that you are supposed to win. 
 So I really can't even relate the two.  I'm not saying that it was an automatic victory over Mississippi State, it was just that we played the moment in the season.  So if you look on paper at just records or whatever, you might think that Florida is supposed to win, but we all knew and that's the kind of -- the thing that covers everybody in the locker room is that as much as you try to say it is 0-0, you want to start from the back of some of your players' minds and that you don't have that same hype and excitement that you do when you play teams like Tennessee and LSU. 
 We want to get ourselves to a point where we have got that same hype and excitement regardless of who we play, because if the ball is falling a couple of different ways today, we might have a different outcome because Mississippi State came in and played a really tough game today. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT