WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2015
Thanasi Kokkinakis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. MAYER/T. Kokkinakis
  7‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of your performance today?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, it was disappointing.   Didn't find the energy I wanted.   As far as being intense, I just didn't play with any confidence out there.   
Managed to get it to two tiebreakers, had a good chance in the first set.  
Yeah, I had a good chance to break early in the second, as well.   Didn't take it.   Got up a break in the third and got broken straight back.  
It just wasn't feeling great out there as far as my game.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you had a little bit of an illness coming into this week?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, definitely I think I'd be lying if I said my preparation was ideal.   Last two weeks after French I actually had a really good week training on the grass, and then couple of things happened.   As soon as I came back home and started to train well again, I got sick, I don't know what it was.  
Still finding out what antibiotics I'm about to take now.   The results should be now which is helpful now that I'm out.   That's good.   
Yeah, I just didn't play great today.  
   
 Q.   It was pretty warm today, as well.   
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   I wasn't really feeling too fatigued physically.   It was more mentally.   I couldn't just get up as much as I wanted.  
   
 Q.   Are you still okay to play doubles with Lleyton?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   I will be all right.  
   
 Q.   How seriously are you taking that?   Do you think you will get deep in the draw?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   I will treat it seriously as I can.   I was pretty pissed off when I walked off the court.  
Yeah, I think because it's Wimbledon and Lleyton's last, I will definitely be into it and give it a good crack.  
   
 Q.   How important are the doubles in terms of Davis Cup?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, I think it's going to be important.   Obviously we haven't had a set team, doubles team association we're always looking to see who is going to play well with who.   Hopefully we can do all right here.   I think we have 15 seeds.   Hopefully get up in the singles and see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   Is that part of the plan?   Have you spoken with Lleyton or he spoken to you about potentially playing doubles in the Davis Cup quarterfinals?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   We will just see how we go here and hopefully we could all right.  
   
 Q.   You said you're a bit pissed off after the game.   You had a couple of smashes, second set.   Was it tough to handle your emotions today, as well?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, it's just disappointing, big tournament, and you're trying to play as well as you can, but you're not quite with it.   That's one of the frustrating things.   
Again, I had little chances and it was a pretty tight three‑set match, even though I felt like I didn't play great.  
It was just my frustration getting over to me.  
   
 Q.   Did you notice the ball boy go down, right before the first set tiebreak?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   They must have been eating what I had, couple went off the court feeling pretty ill.  
   
 Q.   Did you get sick at all during the week?   
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   During the week?   
   
 Q.   Another illness?   Was it more to it?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   No, actually was the first day I wasn't feeling as bad as I had the other days, which is good.   
There was a couple long rallies where I threw up a little bit in my mouth.   But apart from that, I was okay.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember from Lleyton's Wimbledon win?   You were six.   
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Not a lot.   Just that he had a shaved head and he beat Nalbandian in the final.   That's it pretty much.  
   
 Q.   What did that achievement mean to you as you got older?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Well, it didn't mean a lot to me just then because I wasn't even playing tennis.  
But, yeah, as I went on and you grew up watching more and more tournaments, you realize how big of an achievement that was and how much he's done with for the sport in Australia.  
   
 Q.   Do you think his role has been an important part of this generation of Australian players that you have now?   I know you were young when he won that, but beyond that?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, I think so.   Especially Davis Cup, as I said, he's great to have around.   He really sets the tone as far as work ethic and training goes.   He really leads by example.  
   
 Q.   Do you give him a shot if he plays Novak?  
THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   You can never write him off because of what he's done.   Hopefully he gets through today.   It's going to be a tough task, no doubt.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT