AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 9, 2021
Thanasi Kokkinakis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  T. KOKKINAKIS/S. Kwon
 6-4, 6-1, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you talk to us about the match and how it feels to be in the second round of the Australian Open?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, first of all, been a while.  Feels very good.  Yeah, massive relief.  Just happy to get in front of the crowd again and play on that court.  It was a great experience.  Had a lot of friends and family there watching.  They probably made up about 90% of the stands, so appreciative of that.
 Just playing with that energy and that crowd and being able to win, so much work behind the scenes, so much pain and just, yeah, just a massive relief.
 Q. You say it's been a while, six years; is that right?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah.
 Q. You looked like at the end you were kind of soaking it in a bit, maybe emotions coming through.
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, definitely.  At 5-Love, obviously I didn't want to think about the finish line but I thought about it from the first set, I was like, That's all right, just get the next one.  I got the next one, I was like, Still got one more.  So at 5-Love I felt this massive roar and massive cheer from the crowd.  I started tearing up, it was a bit of a soft moment.
 Yeah, it was just so much stuff behind the scenes to get back to that point.  Not a lot of people realize apart from my team and friends and family.  Yeah, definitely got a bit emotional.
 Q. Have you ever felt that sort of emotion before in a match?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   The closest I have felt to that was sort of the US Open, the win I had when I hadn't won a slam match in a while.  So in 2019 I had that.
 But this one was probably a bit more just being back home in Australia.  They hadn't obviously seen me play for a long period of time.  I came on to the scene young.
 It's definitely good to just persist, just knowing how much stuff and the ups and downs mentally that it's given me to come back.  So, yeah, just a massive relief and real appreciative of the crowd.
 Q. What did it feel like when it was finally done, the match was won?  Did you feel like, would you use the word "relief" or a case of this has been a long time coming or what?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   All of the above, yeah.  I was just stoked.  Yeah, very happy.  Massive amount of relief, and, yeah, it was a bit emotional.  As I said, the people around me know the ups and downs what I have been through mentally just trying to get to the starting line of the tournament, and feel like I can compete.
 Just, yeah, relief, relief would be the biggest thing.
 Q. Physically how are you at the moment?  Is it best in a long time?  How do you measure that?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Well, yeah, I mean, touch wood, I feel really good.  I don't want to speak too soon.  But I'm happy with how I pulled up so far.  I think waking up tomorrow I'll know a lot more.
 But, no, definitely happy I've got it done in the way I did.  Obviously win the first, and then the quicker I can win the better to give myself a chance.
 Body feels really good at the moment, so, yeah, can't wait to get out there and have another crack.
 Q. You said after the first set you were already kind of thinking about the finish line and you seemed to speed up from then on.  Second and third sets, did you feel like you found some rhythm?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   That 5-4 game obviously to consolidate the first set was huge for me, getting that monkey off my back a little bit.  And then I knew he was a good player, I knew he was a good ball striker, so I had to try to get on top because I know when he's feeling confident he plays really well.  My serve was a massive part, and I thought I kept my composure very well and I stayed level-headed throughout the whole match.
 That was a big key.  And I just kept trying to get breaks and take the pressure off myself and keep my foot down.  And I haven't won a match I think in Grand Slam level in three sets, I could be wrong, but I'm pretty sure that's the case.  And it's hard to do, win three straight sets against anyone playing this tournament, so I'm really happy and the fashion that I did it.
 Q. Next round you don't officially know your opponent yet but one man is two sets up at the moment, Stefanos looking very impressive.  What can you tell us about what sort of showdown that might be?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, it's going to be exciting.  Obviously a phenomenal player, one of the favorites for this tournament.  It's just going to be fun.  We practiced a few years ago in the past.  I kind of know his family.  I've had some meals in Nice or Monaco with his family.  Just obviously both being Greek, we get along.
 Yeah, it's going to be exciting.  He's obviously been able to stay healthy the last few years.  And I kind of saw him when he was 60, 70 in the world and obviously knew he was going to be a great player then.
 So yeah, I just can't wait to get out there.  I'm not sure what court we'll play on, I'm sure it will be a pretty big one.  I'm hoping there is a decent crowd and can get rowdy, have some Greek fans, Aussie fans, and, yeah, hopefully it's pretty loose.
 Q. He's usually pretty popular here.  How do you think the crowd split will be?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   For the crowd to get behind you you actually have to play.  He's done that.  That's probably my next step.
 So, yeah, I don't know.  He's popular, but, yeah, I don't mind my support either.  It's going to be fun.  Hopefully it can just be rowdy, yeah.
 Q. It's been so long.  How do you maintain a level?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Tennis or mentally?
 Q. Both, really.  You know, you're on a high at the moment with this win, and to keep that and not suffer any sort of a little bit of a letdown maybe going into the next one.
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Well, I don't know if it should be this way, but my mentality goes how my body goes.  If I'm feeling good physically, mentally I'm happy.  Because I know what I can do on the tennis court if I'm feeling all right physically.
 There's definitely been ups and downs for sure.  It's been very, very challenging the last few years.  It always is.  It's a massive, massive journey.  And I know my team and family know kind of what exactly I go through.
 So it's been really hard.  But again, I look on the moments where I've had success and the feelings I got from being on court and having good wins.  I use that to kind of fuel me for as long as I can.  I know I can't do this forever.  So even if I'm just struggling at certain moments I kind of hang on those moments to kind of push me through and just give it a crack.
 Q. There has been a lot of comments on social media about your all-black outfit.  Are you sponsored or is that an outfit of your choice?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   No, it came out special.  Went to Chadstone, bought some $6 tees and went to work.  I just felt comfortable in it.  I've tried to order some more online but they got canceled and they didn't make it through to South Yarra.  It's tough out here, man.  It's not what it used to be.  That's all right, blue collar way.
 I'll bring it back at some point.  Hopefully I can keep playing good tennis and that will come.  I'm not too worried.  If I feel good out there with my footwear, my clothing, and feel like I look good, I will try and play good.  We will see what happens.
 Q. (Question off mic about laundry.)
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   AO or my dryer, but it kind of shrank some clothes and turned into a bit of a crop top.  I don't know how much I'll be putting in the dryer again.
 Q. Last year was probably the first time where you were out of action but everyone else was, as well, because of the pandemic.  I'm wondering, how did you deal with last year and what were you doing?
 THANASI KOKKINAKIS:   Yeah, it was pretty boring.  I'm not gonna lie.  It wasn't exciting.  I played a lot of PlayStation, a lot of time in the rehab room.  Just trying to make it through, I think, like everyone.
 Obviously being sick to start the year my first goal was to try and put some weight back on and look respectable in public.  And then from there, I just tried to build my way up.  And I spent a lot of time training and trying to stay focused mentally and physically and just build up.
 And I knew obviously my Aussie Open was the next sort of carrot.  So I was just trying to play good tennis and get in good enough shape to compete here.
 Short term, training and then PlayStation.  That's how I spent most of my time.  Nothing too exciting.  Wasn't very fun.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT