RICE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 26, 2016
David Bailiff
Emmanuel Ellerbee
Samuel Stewart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Rice - 17, Stanford - 41
DAVID BAILIFF: It was a great job and a great game plan by Coach Shaw and Stanford.  It's just a bunch of young men that worked extremely hard.
Christian McCaffrey, I've been here for 33 years and I have not seen anyone who is capable of doing what he can do with a football in his hand, being as a running back or being as a receiver.  And he's the same way.  You get two or three hits on him, he just pops up, hands the ball to the official.  He does it the right way.
I wanted to come in here tonight and really execute offensively.  We had way too many drops, we lost our starting quarterback last week, so we played Jackson Tyner, who is a red shirt freshman.  I was really pleased with the progress that he was showing.  But at times he made some young mistakes and really we didn't have people, receivers, that helped him out.  We had too many drops.
But I thought they played extremely hard over there.  I was proud of their running game.  We rushed for over 200 yards, which is something we needed to do to come in here.
Defensively, we knew coming in here that you had to tackle Christian and not let him have a big game, and we didn't do that.  Not a lot of people have done that.
But our kids kept playing hard.  I was really, really pleased just with the effort that this football team played with.  It was a tough season for us, we didn't accomplish what we set out to, but really proud of this team.  And these two young men are, Emanuel is a junior and Samuel's a sophomore, and they're two of our team leaders and they both performed exceptionally well tonight.  And we're going to build on the performance of these young guys.
Q. What do you guys take away from a game like this?
SAMUEL STEWART: It's perseverance.  Things don't always go your way in a game or a season.  You just got to keep working, you got to keep pushing through it, and you got to just really work your way out of it and it's not going to be just handed to you.
So, the key is, every team in America knows that you got to works, you got to work to get success, to get a win.  And at this level, everybody's good so you have to show up every week and really just put your best foot forward and you got to take the fight every week and don't think anything's going to be given to you, because it's not, have you to go take it.
Q. You had a fair amount of success with that pitch to the outside.  Why didn't you just keep running that play after play?  You were making six, eight, 10 yards every time you ran that play.
DAVID BAILIFF: You know, we probably should have gone to it more, but you were also so far behind at some point, you need chunks of yards to try to play your game.
Q. I understand.  But your passing game wasn't hitting really well and that was one of the plays that really hit well.
DAVID BAILIFF: No, it was not hitting well at all.  Believe me, we had probably about 10 drops tonight.  But that was one where you just feel, too, as a coach, you got to change things up or they're just going to slide a player over there.  They could have made an adjustment, they just didn't because of what the score was, I believe.
Q. Talk about the game in general.
EMMANUEL ELLERBEE: They came out from, I guess, the very first play that they had, they had the big run, I think it was number 10, that one right there was kind of a, I kind of personally put that on myself, because it was, I thought he was out of bounds type of thing.  That kind of gave them momentum going in.  But a team like this that's so disciplined and they execute everything correctly, you can't give them any type of hope.  But I believe that we came back after that and being able to hold them to a field goal, and another field goal and field goals and field goals and field goals, that we were able to do our job.  Also, we have to, like coach said, No. 5 is a good player, however, I believe that our players are good enough to stop any talented running back.  The last two weeks we have also been up against pretty good running backs and we shut them down.  So we just have to be more disciplined and be able to execute better.  And as you saw, as the game went on, we kind of started not listening and, not necessarily listening, but understanding what our jobs were and that we have to do it together against a team like Stanford, because they are so disciplined and they execute what their coaches ask them to do.
Q. You guys just played four great running backs in a row, I understand.  Where does McCaffrey rank in those four?
EMMANUEL ELLERBEE: I definitely got to give him number one.  He might not be the most physical runner, but he's the most agile runner.  The one play he stopped in the hole completely, like completely stopped the momentum.  Then for him to plant and go from zero to a hundred just like that, that's something that you don't really see many people have.  That's not a trait that many people have.  So for him to be able to do that, that's a big time play.
Q. Did you guys think the weather bothered you making the field sloppy or the ball hard to catch?  Were you upset about that or did it matter?
EMMANUEL ELLERBEE: That's the weather.  I can't, at the end of the day I can't go upstairs and tell the man upstairs, hey, you got to stop raining for us.  But it was something that it kind of did play a factor, especially with getting off of blocks and stuff like that.  It happened to their players on the field as well.  So it's not something that we used as an excuse or something to blame it upon, that's a different thing that we're up to.  It doesn't matter if it was raining, sleet or snow, hail, big old chunks of, I don't know, cats and dogs on the field, we're going to still play our game and be able to play.  So I never blame something on weather.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT