NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Dan Hamhuis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Dan Hamhuis.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DAN HAMHUIS: Yeah, we expected there to be a lot of extra stuff going on, different things pulling at our time. But that's part of being here. It's exciting to be a part of this. But it's just important that when we are on the ice, at the rink, to focus on hockey and put the distractions aside.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding pressure.)   
 DAN HAMHUIS: I mean, even though their power-play hasn't produced a lot, they have some real dangerous players up front on the point. They got so much potential to be very dangerous.   
 We play it similar to the way we've played other teams, that's with a lot of respect, try to take away their time.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DAN HAMHUIS: I prefer to maybe be in the box for a 10-minute misconduct and not worry about him. He's a threat no matter where he is on the ice.   
  
  Q. They've been using him up front the last couple games.   
 DAN HAMHUIS: Yeah, I mean, it will be tough to deal with him there. Probably not going to move him out of there. Just try to get to pucks before he can and not allow him to tip them as much as we can.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DAN HAMHUIS: Well, it depends on the play. Every play is different. Some plays they try to, other plays they take the puck.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding lines.)   
 DAN HAMHUIS: Yeah, if that's the matchup we're going to play, it will be challenging. They're three very good players, all big guys, physical. Lucic probably is the most physical, pure power forward. Then you have Krejci who is a great play-maker and Horton who is a great shooter. They have great balance and chemistry. It's going to be tough to play for them.   
  
  Q. What is it like for a BC boy to be part of the Cup final?   
 DAN HAMHUIS: It's been a lot of fun. I know how much it means to everyone in this province growing up here. Was a huge fan. '94 run they had. Now going back into small towns throughout the north, I know how much it means. It's really exciting to be a part of that.   
  
  Q. Would there be some form of a parade up there and how many people would there be if there were a parade?   
 DAN HAMHUIS: I think there's always been a lot of parades up there after every win so far in the playoffs. People driving through the streets, waving flags, honking horns. They're well-practiced. I'm sure there would be a big one at the end.   
  
  Q. You grew up a Canuck fan. Is that one of the reasons you signed here or is that too dramatic?   
 DAN HAMHUIS: There's a lot of things we looked at at free agency. That was one of them. Obviously, quality of life in the city. City we're familiar with being here in the summer a bit. Knew we liked it here. It's one of many things we considered and certainly was a plus to coming here.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DAN HAMHUIS: It's been very exciting all week just preparing for this. A little anxiety waiting for it to start. It's been a long break. Now that it's starting, we're excited to get it going.  
  
  Q. What do you do tonight to prepare?   
 DAN HAMHUIS: Yeah, it's a huge game, there's going to be probably some extra nerves out there. Just kind of think about the game, do my usual preparations. But knowing that it's on a bigger stage, there's going to be more emotion, more excitement. I think as long as you're aware of that, know what can happen, prepare the best you can.   
  
  Q. Do you expect to get a full night's sleep?  
 DAN HAMHUIS: I hope so. We'll see how it goes. There's a few games this year in the playoffs, the Game 7 in Chicago, one of those games makes it tough to sleep the night before. With this series, the travel, rest is going to be important.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DAN HAMHUIS: No, I haven't heard if they were watching the games together. I'm sure the local sports pubs will be full. There's huge support for the Canucks. I know this year it's probably over the top.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT