NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 23, 2001
Dan Hamhuis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Hey, Dan, just talk about your strengths, I guess, as an offensive defenseman and what that might mean for the Nashville organization?

DAN HAMHUIS: I think literally I'm a guy that will be able to jump up and play fourth guy in the rush and move the puck around at their end quickly.


Q.  When you dreamed as a kid about playing in the NHL one day, I imagine the first team that jumped in your head wasn't Nashville, but now that you have been picked by Nashville, what are your thoughts about possibly playing there one day?

DAN HAMHUIS: I'm really excited about it.  Yeah, you're right.  As a young kid Nashville wasn't around, so I never dreamed of them.  But, yeah, it'll be a really good experience for me with them being a new team in the League.  But they won't have as much depth as a Colorado, New Jersey type team, but I'm really looking forward to a chance to try to get in the lineup.


Q.  Dan, just wondering if you had any idea where you might go in today's first round, if you expected it to last until the twelfth pick?

DAN HAMHUIS: I really had no idea coming into it.  I had teams from Minnesota's pick at 6 to Nashville at 12.  A lot of them expressed a need for an offensive defenseman.  Really my heart started beating every time a team went up there, but really excited to be with Nashville. 


Q.  You mentioned your heart beating every time a pick was made.  Did you find it if you weren't picked soon it was going to be kind of hard to deal with waiting for the anticipation and finally hearing your name called?

DAN HAMHUIS: It was really exciting sitting there.  It was great to see the guys that got picked.  I'm friends with them all and I was really happy for them, but sitting there it's a little nerve-wracking, but I had a lot of talks with Nashville during the season and they sounded really confident that they might pick me if I'm still at 12.  So I was really hoping that they'd pick me. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT