DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFF: SLOVAKIA v USA
September 13, 2014
Lukas Lacko
Miroslav Mecir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN‑BRYAN/Gombos‑Lacko
  6‑1, 6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the change you made in the pairing before.   Why?  
CAPTAIN MECIR:   Well, I would be more happy if I could use Michal for doubles, but he was getting better but he was still struggling.   Didn't want to risk that he's going to get more injured or something, so I had to change it because of the health problems.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
CAPTAIN MECIR:   He had some inflammation.   He took antibiotics and doctor tried to treat him as fast as possible.   But he had a lot of pain also.   
Doctor would have to tell you.   I cannot say exactly.   
   
 Q.   Obviously they have won 100 career titles.   Just won the US Open and everything.   What's it like being out there facing them when they're playing as well as they did today?   C?  
LUKAS LACKO:   Well, I play them once like couple years ago.   But, you know, it's tough when you don't play doubles.   We re mainly focused for singles, and it was like bad thing that we couldn't use Michal and Martin as well.   They played good match last time.  
Yeah, you are missing that match practice ‑‑ I mean, practice and missing double matches so you are a little bit lost there, yeah, when you're playing the best double pair in the world, so it's very tough to try to win.   
   
 Q.   Miroslav, can you take any positives?   Obviously we have two matches tomorrow.   Can you take any positives away from this tie or just wipe them out of your memory bank?   
CAPTAIN MECIR:   If I go only for the double, I mean, Norbert doesn't have many experience from doubles.   He only played few tournaments.   I was quite happy he played the way he played.   I think he could improve his doubles game if he will play some more on the tour.   
Then the rest, the singles matches are very tough and could go either way.   The first set was very deciding on both.   I just wish the guys had more luck or maybe could have been bit more tougher at the tiebreaker.  
But it's the way the sport goes.   So it's a good experience for them.   Always good to play top guys.   That's the best practice, preparation for the next time.   
   
 Q.   You had mentioned Martin, that you weren't thinking about playing him today.   Any thoughts about the matches tomorrow?   Any substitutions you're thinking about?  
CAPTAIN MECIR:   Yeah, the substitution, it's dead rubber now, so it's very possible and I will look at it as a rest.   So I think these two guys could play tomorrow, but this is not 100% sure.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT