DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: BRAZIL v USA
February 3, 2013
Thomaz Bellucci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BELLUCCI/J. Isner
  2‑6, 6‑4, 6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Five‑set win.   What did you think of your performance today.   
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Was much better than Friday.   I think I play very well today.   He's a very good player, so was not easy for me.   
I was fighting every point.   I was running every point.   For me is very special to beat him here.   Hopefully Thiago plays his best tennis.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a game plan, some plan that you wanted to formulate, in order to win?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   I was just trying to keep playing, was trying to be very positive.   I didn't play well on Friday, so I just trying to be positive.   Even when I miss some balls, I was very positive every time.   
In the end, I saw that Isner was a little bit tired and I was trying to put every ball inside the court to keep him playing.   So that was the point in the last game, I think.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel a little more comfortable with the speed of the court today, having played on it Friday?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yes, of course, is easier if you already play one match in this surface.   Is easier when you play two matches in three days.   You feel more comfortable for the second match.   
Even if I lose today, I was happy to play very well.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about trying to cope with his serve, how difficult it was.   
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yeah, is the key of his game.   He'll always win a lot of points very easy.   Serve and forehand, serve and forehand every time.   
I think I return very well today.   Sometimes I put a lot of pressure on him.   So sometimes he doesn't win too many points when he was serving.   In the end, he was missing a lot with the forehand.   Just trying to fighting every point because sometime he miss three forehands, and that's the key of the game.   
   
 Q.   Were you nervous at all in the third‑set tiebreak?   
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yeah, of course it was a very important set for me.   If I win this set, maybe the match will be easier.   
But, anyway, when I lost the set, I was very frustrated.   But in the beginning of the fourth set I was running a lot, I was very positive even if I was in trouble sometimes.   
   
 Q.   He had not played in almost a month.   Did you feel that he was wearing down in that fifth set?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yeah, I think so.   He was a little bit tired.   I saw sometimes he wasn't running some balls.   Sometimes he was trying to win the point in one or two shots.   Was just trying to make him running every time.   Sometimes he was missing because of this.   He was a little bit tired.   It was tough to play long rallies.   
   
 Q.   I asked if you were nervous.   How were you able to keep your nerves steady in the fifth set?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   I was trying to play with my team.   I think the Brazilian team was very important for me today.   They were screaming for me every time, saying, C'mon, every time.   I felt very comfortable inside the court.   
Was just trying to fight every point until the end.   Just very happy to have this victory.   
   
 Q.   He got off to a fast start, 6‑2 in the first set.   Did you change anything after that first set?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   No, didn't change.   In the first set, I had many chances, five or six breakpoints.   He played very well both games when he break me.   
I didn't change anything.   I just was very positive.   In the beginning of the second, I was playing better, serving better, winning more free points.   That was very important as well.   
I think he felt that I was playing better in the second set.   That was important.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT