DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: BRAZIL v USA
February 1, 2013
Thomaz Bellucci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/T. Bellucci
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your general impressions of the match?   
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   It was not easy to play today.   The court was very fast.   He was serving very strong, very close from the lines.   
I didn't play my best tennis, so I'm a little bit disappointing.   But, anyway, we have four more points to play, so we have to fight.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yeah, a little bit.   He served very well.   Maybe 78% of the first serves.   It's not easy to play in these conditions with a very high percentage of the serves.   
I should be holding my serve for a while, but I couldn't.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember somebody else serving that big against you?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Maybe Isner can serve that big, I don't know.   
Like I said, this court is very fast.   If you serve more than 130 miles per hour, it's almost impossible to return.   
Anyway, when I return, he has a very good forehand.   Was not easy to win one point when he serve very good.   
   
 Q.   What parts of your game were working well and what do you think you'll build on going into reverse singles on Sunday?   
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   The first set I didn't play well in my serve.   I made many mistakes, especially in 4‑3 when I lost my serve.   I missed three forehands and had one double‑fault.   So I need to improve, I need to get more concentrate.   I cannot make a lot of mistakes like I made today.   
To play against these guys, you don't have many chances if you don't play your best tennis.   It's very tough to win.   
   
 Q.   How many of the mistakes were because you were nervous and how many were because Sam played well today?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   I wasn't nervous.   I only didn't play my best tennis.   These conditions, I cannot play my best tennis.   I'm used to playing in the clay court.   This court is very fast.   You cannot hit more than three or four balls on the baseline.   So for me it's not easy to play in these conditions.  
   
 Q.   Do you ever recall playing on a surface this fast?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yeah, we played three or four years ago in Croatia.   The court was very fast like this.   
But we know that before.   We just try to practice a lot in these conditions.   Like I said, on Sunday I need to try to hold my serve in a tiebreaker or 5‑All to put some pressure on the United States team.  
   
 Q.   When he's serving that well, how much more pressure does that put on your own service games?  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yeah, they put a lot of pressure.   You cannot lose one game when you are serving.   I didn't have one breakpoint in the match, so I was very frustrating in the match.   I was very upset in the third set because I didn't have many chances to win one set.   
Was very upset because I lost the second set, I lost my serve in the first game.   Like that, it's so much easier to play.   He served like he doesn't have too much pressure.   Is much more easier to play like that.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   For me is very nice city.   We didn't have much time to see.   But is very nice.   
The view in my room is very nice.   There is a river in the front.   We enjoy.   Anyway, we are very happy to have a chance to come here to play the World Group.   I'm satisfied to be here today.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yes, a little bit different because there's no windy, there's no sun.   It's much easier to serve, it's much easier to play.   
Anyway, we have to play in all conditions because we play sometimes indoors, sometimes outdoors.   So the tennis is very, very different than other sports.   You have to learn to play on a lot of different conditions.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT