NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 30, 2014
Steve Gillispie
Kevin Hix
Josh White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE GILLISPIE:   Well, obviously that was a good get‑our‑feet‑wet type of experience for us. 
I'm very disappointed we didn't play a better brand of baseball and didn't show more of what we had shown at the end of the year.   But still, we kept fighting and we kept competing pitch by pitch, and that absolutely was a trademark of this club during the entire year. 
That doesn't surprise me that we did that but obviously disappointed we didn't make that a bit more of a close ballgame and give some of our guys at the back end of the bullpen a chance to hold it tight. 

Q.   In the first inning on the fly ball, what happened there, and was it miscommunication with the two‑out play? 
KEVIN HIX:   We had our freshman outfielder back there.   He hasn't played there a lot.   I think he was just playing a little too deep on that particular play yeah, yeah, I couldn't get there in time.   I was shading to his opposite gap side so I couldn't get there in time.   I tried my best effort and it dropped. 

Q.   Just to follow up on that, how important is it, a start like that, to play for your pitcher that could have made a difference in a start for you guys?
KEVIN HIX:   Oh, yeah, it's very important.   I mean, we didn't make that play but all year we would have made that play any other day.   Just happened that it happened, dropped tonight.   

Q.   Talking about Indiana's starting pitcher making his first start, Scott Effross, what did you think of his performance? 
JOSH WHITE:   He did a pretty good job of changing speeds and worked off his fastball, which whenever a pitcher can work off his fastball and locate like that, it's tough. 
I thought we actually did a pretty good job of hitting the ball hard.   Some balls didn't fall early in the game, hit some balls hard, put some runners on base.   But he did a good job of keeping us off‑balance. 

Q.   It seemed like they were swinging a lot early in counts, especially early on.   Did you feel like they were really aggressive in the batter's box from the go tonight? 
STEVE GILLISPIE:   Yeah, they were and we knew they would be.   We tried to keep the ball out of the middle of the plate and did a pretty good job for the most part.   Obviously they didn't really hit a ball hard that first inning and came out with three runs after a missed play that we had, and you know, that kind of really put us in a hole. 
But they were very aggressive and then when they did hurt us going off‑‑ getting off swings early in the count, we definitely got too much at the plate with what we were trying to do.   We were trying to expose and open up some holes or trying to see if we couldn't open up and expose some holes, and we missed right in the middle. 

Q.   You left 11 runners on base.   Was it just a matter of not being able to get that timely hit when you needed it? 
STEVE GILLISPIE:   Yeah, we had some issues with that during the course of the year where we did leave some people on base, and you know, a lot of it, maybe we didn't get them there early in the inning to where we could move them up to where we could get something happening without having to have a base hit.   But like I said, our guys, they are going to compete and they are going to go pitch to pitch, inning one to inning nine. 
But just a base hit here or there and it might have been a little different.   Obviously some of the missed plays we had; the first inning‑‑ or the third inning when they scored three.   We hit a runner with two outs.   We walked in a run with two outs.   The fifth inning, we made an error, and then didn't turn the double play.   Then, you know, another three‑run inning. 
So I think in a lot of ways, the game was much closer than maybe what the score said but in a lot of ways, that was some evidence of where we've had struggles in the course of the year. 

Q.   What did you see from your starter, Josh White, especially in the third inning with the first two pitches, a triple and home run, was he just missing his spots? 
STEVE GILLISPIE:   Yeah, we tried to go in, tried to open up a hole away and he threw it right in the middle of the plate.   Schwarber is definitely a wrong guy to throw the ball in the middle of plate.   And then we left a chest‑tight change‑up to Travis, and that really kind of turned the game.   I think it really, you know, that was kind of where it was going to be really difficult for us. 

Q.   What were your impressions of Effross, what did he do well? 
STEVE GILLISPIE:   He's a strike‑thrower and he has some arm‑side run.   He threw a couple nice changeups to a couple of our left‑handed hitters.   And I think early on, maybe he probably wasn't as sharp with the breaking ball as he may have been during the course of the season. 
But he did a really nice job of limiting what we did and then we did hit a couple balls hard that were outs to, you know, just kind of let him just keep on pitching and throwing strikes.   There was enough there, our guys came back and were talking, it was a little harder than what they thought and what it looked like and it was getting on them a little bit, so they were trying to make some adjustments, and we did all right. 
But he was a guy that you were going to have to be really locked in to do something with, because he does have some sink and some run and some deception.

Q.   This is the first time Accardi had played in quite some time.   What did you see from him in the couple of at‑bats he did get and what's your plan for him tomorrow?
STEVE GILLISPIE:   Well, we'll have to see how he feels as far as playing tomorrow.   He is coming off injury and that's his first at‑bat in five or six weeks probably. 
He did a nice job with the double down the line, but the fact that it was a double, not a triple, he's not 100 percent.   And the chopper to third, most of his career, you know, there when they threw him out, it wouldn't have been close.   You could tell, you can tell, he's not at 100 percent. 
But we'll see how he feels and see if we can't get him back in there, maybe as a starter, and get him out if he's having some issues or do like we did today and bring him in late. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT