NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Perry Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   If you would start with opening statements about the whole Draft and feelings about being drafted by Oklahoma. 
PERRY JONES III:   Well, first let me start off by saying, I mean, I just wanted the opportunity to play in the NBA.   Didn't really matter what pick I got.   Just wanted the chance to play for somebody. 
And I'm more than happy to play for Oklahoma City and Kevin Durant, somebody I look at on film.   He's my favorite player.   So therefore, for me to be under his wing is going to be wonders for me. 

Q.   How are you able to establish what type of player you are?   Are you going to be a back‑to‑the‑basket player or more on the wing?   How are you looking to establish your identity? 
PERRY JONES III:   Well, just starting off just playing basketball, whatever the coach feels he needs me to play or wherever he's more comfortable with me playing, that's where I need to be, but that's all Coach's decision.

Q.   Did you watch the Finals?   What did you think of them? 
PERRY JONES III:   I wanted a Game 7 to be honest.   But I mean, I was rooting for Oklahoma Cityso it did put a smile on my face.

Q.   What do you think of the idea of playing with Durant and playing with Russell Westbrook? 
PERRY JONES III:   They are going to teach me a lot.   I'm just going to be under their wing.   They can make me a better player, and those guys work hard, so being with somebody that works hard, and Durant is just amazing.   So definitely be under his wing and learning from him is going to help my game. 

Q.   Talk about how the Baylor basketball program has really flourished over the past few years and talk about how special that's been for you? 
PERRY JONES III:   I think we've come a long way, because a lot of guys made sacrifices:   Me, Quincy Miller, Quincy Acy, a lot of guys made a lot of sacrifices, giving up chances to score for other people, being very unselfish.   That's the big reason why Baylor is coming up, because of the unselfishness of the players. 

Q.   I guess obviously going into the Draft, you were seen by many as a potential sort of top pick.   Falling to where you did, was it tough sitting there, and do you think you'll use this as motivation moving forward?
PERRY JONES III:   Definitely used it as motivation.   But once again, I just wanted the opportunity to play anywhere, no matter if I got picked next round.   Whichever team I'm going to, I'm just happy, because that's the team that I actually like and enjoy watching.   I know those guys are going to help me as a player and as a person. 

Q.   So you're glad that things worked out the way they did, especially where you ended up? 
PERRY JONES III:   I actually am.   I actually am. 

Q.   There is like a side to you that says, "Oh, my God, I slipped, this is terrible"; but there's the other side that says, "I'm with a team that can compete for a championship."   Is that the other side of the slide, that you get the opportunity to immediately go to a winner? 
PERRY JONES III:   That's a good question.   I mean, it wouldn't matter to me if they were a contender or not.   They are somebody I could see myself playing with.   They like to run the floor real well, and they are one of the best teams, and I know I can learn from them.   What's better than learning from one of the best teams?   They were in the Finals.   They have great players, great coach.   This is just an opportunity for me to grow. 

Q.   How is it coming from a school where you've got one segment, you have (Brittney) Griner who won a title and that segment of the school, and you have another segment that's growing with a quarterfinal and that has a Heisman Trophy winner and then you revitalized a program that went down with scandal you and brought legitimacy back to the program?   How is it living with that triangle of stars and getting along with each other and all of that?
PERRY JONES III:   It wasn't difficult.   We knew each other before all of the good things started happening.   So it was just real easy to get accustomed to each other when the limelight hit us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT