ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2015
Maxime Hamou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. JANOWICZ/M. Hamou6-7, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.Q. Just wondering what happened at the end of the match with the handshake.  Seemed like you were both angry on the each other.MAXIME HAMOU: (In French.)  Well, I found it was a little edgy on his part.  There is nothing else I have to say at this point. I think a lot of players know him; I did not know him.  I know him now.THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.Q. I heard you did not respect him.  That's what he said.  You did not apologize.  Apparently he told you to apologize.MAXIME HAMOU: I think it was a mistake on his behalf, but I did not do it deliberately.  I don't think I was disrespectful.Q. Did he tell you to apologize?MAXIME HAMOU: Well, after we left the court I think he was trying to put up a show.Q. Are you disappointed at his behavior?MAXIME HAMOU: No.  I was warned.Q. I didn't see the match, but at one point apparently he served and he missed it and you shot back very powerfully.MAXIME HAMOU: Well, he served and I sent the ball back.  You know, of course it was not deliberate.  It was a fast ball, but he had plenty of time to move to the side. He gave me that look.  You know, matches like that, there are plenty, especially when you're, you know, a growing player.  Not so much in Grand Slam matches is my understanding.Q. I suppose it's part of building your experience.  I imagine it was a great learning experience.MAXIME HAMOU: Well, yes.  I think I had some great opportunities, especially in the second set.  I had some break points.  I don't think there was much difference between the two of us. I think what really made the difference is his serve.  I tried to fight hard on all points and I lost, but I'm quite proud nonetheless.  I will continue fighting.Q. I did not know you very well prior to the match.  Are you always top speed?  I guess it's probably because there was a lot of tension for you.  This is your first Roland Garros.  You seem to be super energized.MAXIME HAMOU: This is my dream ever since I've been a kid, and I would like to thank the French Tennis Federation for inviting me. You know, instead of going to Kazakhstan where I'm three weeks all on my own or here in front of the French public, it's a big difference.  This match will be a very memorable experience. Yes, I'm always very energized whether it's in Egypt, Kazakhstan all by myself, or here, that's how I am.Q. Jo and Benoit came to encourage you.MAXIME HAMOU: Yes, it was very nice.Q. What is the one thing you learned in this match?MAXIME HAMOU: The one thing I learned is that tomorrow I'm going to have to go back and train more and more.  Voila.Q. I saw you when you were a junior.  You did some great matches over the past weeks.  Nobody saw you coming.  How do you see your near future?MAXIME HAMOU: Are you saying I was an unexpected wildcard?Q. Well, it came sort of last minute.MAXIME HAMOU: Well, there are other players that are maybe in a more favorable position, but they didn't play well.  I did play well.  I've been playing on clay for quite sometime, and I guess that's it.  I'm fighting.  There comes a point where it pays off. I did a few good tournaments, and this is why I think got a wildcard.Q. Are you going to go to play on clay again?MAXIME HAMOU: Yes.  I'm going to play the Wimbledon quallies.  I can't remember exactly when it is.  Yeah, end of June.Q. Don't you think it's a bit interesting in a match like this to see that this guy gets away with the match simply because he's a good server?MAXIME HAMOU: Yes, Yes, it is frustrating.  When we were actually playing, I felt good.  The objective was to hit back, you know.  I talked with my trainers, Julien Benneteau.  We had a small meeting before the match to help me, to discuss things, and it was very helpful. So my answer is yes, it is very frustrating.  This was my fear.  Nonetheless, I think we were able to also have a real fight.Q. What did Benneteau tell you?MAXIME HAMOU: Benneteau told me that he was a hard hitter, that he was a very good player, and that my number one objective was to get the ball back. I was able to do that at times.Q. This was your first experience at Roland Garros.  You train all year-round at the CNE.  Tell me about the atmosphere.  What's it like?  How different is this from your normal life?  You know, you're normal life.  I know you're here on a regular basis.MAXIME HAMOU: You said I train at the CNE all year-round.  That's true, but we don't play outside all the time.  When you live in Paris it's not easy to play outside.  We've only played outside for about a month now. That's why I trained in Latin America.  I went to warmer countries.  But when I train in Paris it's inside. So, yes, I've now been here for a year and I do know different places where you can train, play tennis. But playing here with a great atmosphere, it's wonderful.  I'm here with my friends, my relatives, and I'm a French player playing at home. It feels great.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT