CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MIAMI VS WISCONSIN
December 27, 2017
Jonathan Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What would you say to someone who says Wisconsin doesn't want to be here?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: I'd say they're definitely wrong.  We're definitely fired up to be here.  We've got a great opponent in front of us, so it's going to take a lot to beat those guys.  They're a great program.  They're athletic, they're fast, and it's going to take our best shot to beat those guys, and they're coming off losses, as well, so they're going to be pretty fired up to be here, as well, especially in front of their home crowd.   
 Q.  How important is it to keep in mind that they're coming off two straight losses?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: It's definitely important, coming off the ACC loss and then coming off of another loss, they're fired up.  They're trying to come out and finish their season strong just like us.  We've got to make sure that we give them our best shot because they're going to come out swinging.   
 Q.  The run game was sort of kept in check against Ohio State, and you're coming up against another great defense.  What can you learn from that loss against Ohio State?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: Yeah, you can definitely look at where things went wrong in execution.  Some things were just minor details that we weren't coached at practice, so we've got to make sure that things like that don't happen in this game and make sure that our execution is where it needs to be.   
 Q.  What was happening against Ohio State that kind of kept you guys in check?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: Definitely making sure we win our one-on-one battles, firing off, making sure guys are playing full speed.  Just definitely making sure that we're winning those one-on-one battles.   
 Q.  Is that going to be a bigger challenge against Miami that's so fast and so athletic?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: You know, it'll definitely be a similar challenge as well as Ohio State.  Miami is definitely fast and athletic.  We're going to be put to the test again, so we've got to make sure that we come prepared.   
 Q.  What sticks out to you most about their defense and what worries you the most?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: Definitely the athleticism.  Those guys do a great job of coming off blocks and using their hands, so we've got to make sure that we stick on guys.   
 Q.  What was it like being recruited by Yale and Harvard out of high school?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: It was definitely an experience being recruited by a program like that.  You definitely start thinking about your future a lot, a lot of things, a lot of doors that can open up for you, and it was a definite experience, and it was tough making the decision between those programs.   
 Q.  Did you give them much consideration?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: Definitely did give them much consideration.  I visited Harvard three times, so that was definitely a big school on my radar.  It was tough, but I'm glad that I made the decision that I did, and I'm happy to be here with my boys.   
 Q.  What was the deciding factor?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: One of the deciding factors was just what I wanted from my college experience.  Harvard definitely had great academics, had good football, and here I just felt as though I'd have a great balance between great academics and great football.  I kind of wanted to have a balanced college career.   
 Q.  So Madison won it over?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: Definitely.  I'd pick it 100 times.   
 Q.  How do you describe obviously just this offense overall, your role in it and just collectively just as an offense coming out of the Big Ten?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: Yeah, this offense is definitely -- you pride yourself on being the most physical team on the field.  We're definitely going to take it one play at a time, one game at a time, and we're just going to make sure that we execute every single play, and we're going to keep coming at you.  This team is very resilient, so we're going to fight every single play until the clock is fourth quarter, zero seconds left, so that's one thing about this team, we're going to fight and prove ourselves and be the most physical team on the field.   
 Q.  You guys had a couple of comebacks this year.  What goes into that when you guys obviously look at the scoreboard, you're down, but to still be in it with the confidence that you have?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: Yeah, it's really just about sustaining drives, making sure every play we execute, move the chains.  That's one thing we focus on is just moving the chains.  Once you get down in the red zone, then it's just about finishing and completing the drive.   
 Q.  Speaking of change, no pun intended, but I was going to ask you about the turnover chain.  It's a big momentum swing for the Miami Hurricanes throughout the year.  It's been a great season for the team itself.  When you look at it offensively, what is it, is it one of those things that whatever you do, prevent the turnover?  What is it like when you're hearing about a turnover chain and the momentum that can bring for the opposing team?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: Yeah, it definitely is a priority.  We know that's something that fires their defense up.  That's something their program has to get their team going.  It's imperative that we don't make that a factor into this game.  That's a controllable, turnovers is a controllable, so we've got to make sure we don't allow that to beat us.   
 Q.  You've played some great running backs this year.  What have you seen in Travis Homer?  
JONATHAN TAYLOR: I've seen this guy has great vision and he has great speed, but he does have the ability to break tackles.  Our defense is definitely going to pay attention to making sure they wrap up, making sure that everyone is doing their assignment because this guy will definitely find holes and exploit missing assignments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT