STANFORD UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2013
Ty Montgomery
Trent Murphy
Shayne Skov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Ty, can you talk about the role you played tonight?   Would you call this your best game ever? 
TY MONTGOMERY:   I don't know.   I guess.   I'm not trying to think as an individual right now.   I'm just really happy that we pulled out a win.

Q.   How much of a help was it that both of those kicks were pretty much line drive kicks you had plenty of room to maneuver there, right? 
TY MONTGOMERY:   I mean, that always helps when you have a line drive because it gives you more time to get set up.

Q.   Shane, that last play for Washington on that fourth down pass, how would you describe that play?   What was your view of the pass?   What was it like during that time waiting for the call to get overturned? 
SHAYNE SKOV:   A little nervous, you know, but we were ready to go again.   I think these guys get felt the same thing.   We were just ready to strap up and hold the line.   We were just ready to take the field again.   Can't worry about that.

Q.   Trent, in the fourth quarter, the defense was pushed a lot.   Had to make big plays, you had that tip pass for the interception.   Did you guys feel that the game was on your shoulders and you guys had to step up? 
TRENT MURPHY:   No, not necessarily.   I think our offense did a pretty good job.   I mean, they took care of the ball.   We have faith in our offense and to always step up.   If it was in their hands, I believe they would have made the right play. 
It was on our shoulders at that particular moment.   We had to take it one play at a time, trust our coaches to get the right call, and everybody do their job, get off the field.   At the end day, that's what happened.

Q.   Ty, I know you don't want to talk individual stuff.   But that touchdown before halftime, how big of a momentum shifter was that for your ballclub? 
TY MONTGOMERY:   I think it was huge.   We won by three points, so you take away seven, and that's a loss, so it was big.

Q.   Can you talk about Keith Price and how tough it was to try to corral this guy?   He kept plays alive and all that. 
TRENT MURPHY:   Yeah, he's extremely shifty.   I mean, credit to him because he's a really good athlete.   We were trying to keep him in the pocket, put him on the run sometimes and try to get him down.   I mean, he was sidestepping, and then he took off running to get first downs. 
I mean, he was a huge part of their offense.   He can throw.   Being a dual‑threat, being able to take off and run like that made it hard for us.   We didn't do a great job getting him down and controlling that.   So there's definitely room for improvement for us as we press forward. 

Q.   Shayne, you went down for a few plays in the second half.   What happened there? 
SHAYNE SKOV:   Took a shot.   It's football.   Sometimes you get hit.   I'm fine, but needed a moment to take care of it, but I'm good to go.

Q.   Shayne, it seems that you thrive off those big plays on the defense.   The last play of the game you guys are coming in and you guys are waiting for the call, what was going through your minds then?   How do you keep as a team focused in moments like that? 
SHAYNE SKOV:   I mean, we focused on each other, communicated.   It wasn't a great performance today defensively, but we did what we have to do.   The interception, there was a moment where we've got to take the field and feed off each other, and we were able to do that and we're going to improve.   When guys have the opportunity to make plays, we have to step up and we have faith in one another.

Q.   Trent, you guys are 5‑0 now.   We've seen a lot of different types of scores in games here.   How do you feel about where this team is at right now? 
TRENT MURPHY:   I mean, we kind of take it one week at a time.   One of our team goals is just to go 1‑0 every week, and that is the goal.   We got that goal this week.   It wasn't pretty, but we got it.   So next week we're trying to go 1‑0 again. 
I mean, there is a lot of room for improvement.   We have to improve as a team and get better each week.   We can't be the same team we were a week ago.   We just have to keep moving forward.   So hopefully we'll be a better team next week.

Q.   To a lot of viewers this might be your biggest test of a team with National Championship aspirations.   What do you think you showed to a national audience tonight as a team? 
TY MONTGOMERY:   We were in a fight and down to the last minute, obviously.   We showed that we can stand in there and we can finish a game and win in a fight if we have to.

Q.   All your games before this have been relatively blowouts compared to this.   Do you think it's important for your team's psyche as a whole to get one of these under your belt?   Especially since one of your goals is to go undefeated? 
SHAYNE SKOV:   I think you need to be tested on occasion to prove to yourself what you're capable of and to improve.   I think like we said before we look forward to every week people pushing us and people testing us, because we feel we're going to get better.   You find out things about yourself when you have to push through adversity.   You have to rise up to the challenge. 
So if it's a learning moment for us, and it's part of college football, we have to be introspective and figure out what we have to do week to week.   The more difficult the games are, the better we'll become.

Q.   Shayne, just a follow‑up on that, I realize the game just ended half hour or so ago, but what did you guys discover about yourselves?   What have you learned? 
SHAYNE SKOV:   We're in a fight.   Guys have to make plays when they need to.   Ty's touchdown interception with ten seconds left, Tarp's pick, I mean, we've got guys that are going to fight till the end, and we don't quit. 
The other thing we learned is there are things we have to improve upon.   It wasn't perfect, and we're going to make those improvements and come out next week ready to go again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT