NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 10, 1998
Joey Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Joey, how do you feel about this unique opportunity with pitching this series?
 
 JOEY HAMILTON: I think it's a great opportunity. A couple of years ago when we made the
playoffs, we took our three losses pretty quick and got out of it. To be able to advance
this year and make it to this point and play as well as we have, I think everybody is
looking forward to the three games here. 
 
Q. Any disappointment with not starting in the first round, getting your shot now at
home?
 
 JOEY HAMILTON: I was disappointed. I said that before, but there was no anger. There
was no frustration. I was going to try to do whatever I can to help the team win. And if
they felt it was out of the bullpen, that was fine with me. But obviously, I'd like to
start, but it's just a nice feeling to be here, regardless of which way I'm used. 
 
Q. Has it been tough to stay on schedule?
 
 JOEY HAMILTON: Not really. I threw in a game out of the bullpen in Houston, and I got 3
innings in there, and came in another game and threw in a part of the inning there, and
threw in the bullpen session yesterday in Atlanta. So I've thrown three times over the
last ten days. So it's worked out pretty well. 
 
Q. You've had a little problem this year in first inning, I believe.
 
 JOEY HAMILTON: I've had a little problem in first inning in a lot of years, I guess,
not just this year. But it's something that I started off this year pretty poorly in the
first innings, but over the last two or three months, I think I've thrown better, not only
in the first inning, but over the course of the whole game. It's not anything I can
explain. You can look at Tom Glavine. He's had similar problems. The report on him is if
you want to get to him, get to him early. And I'm sure that's the same way with me. I
can't pinpoint one thing, any explanation as to why that is. 
 
Q. Is it a possibility that maybe you get too up for a game?
 
 JOEY HAMILTON: I would probably imagine that would be the reason. I get kind of fired
up and anticipation sets in pretty good. I've tried to calm down in the bullpen before the
game started and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. But who knows. I told them
that instead of bringing Javie in tonight, maybe he could start the game and let me come
in the second inning. And they didn't go for that, but I tried. 
 
Q. The theory that hitting is contagious; does that work for pitching, as well?
 
 JOEY HAMILTON: I think there's no doubt. With the pitching staff that we have here,
especially the starters, I think that every starter feeds off the performance of the day
before, and with Brownie pitching, if he starts the series, and Ash comes in behind him,
Ash is going to want to do better. And if Sterling come in behind him, he wants to do
better than Ash. And if I come in behind Sterling, I'm going to want to do better than all
of them. It's a friendly competition that we have, and you want to go out and do better
than the guy before you. But you don't try to press, and you still try to stay within
yourself and your own gameplan. 
 
Q. Joey, your results, the different pitching: Atlanta, Georgia, and pitching against
the Braves at home here?
 
 JOEY HAMILTON: I think the situation has kind of been blown out of proportion because
I'm a Georgia native. I've never beat Pittsburg in Pittsburg, but nobody makes a big deal
of it because I'm not from Pennsylvania. I've thrown some good games in Atlanta, but the
poor games have overcome the good ones and overshadowed the good ones. But this team is no
slouch. There's been plenty of guys that go in and got their butt kicked in Atlanta. And
they're not from Georgia, so a big deal is probably not made about it. 
 
Q. Sterling, when he had that break, he talked about how he had to avoid being too
strong; he's got too much velocity. Have you done anything like that so that doesn't
happen to you?
 
 JOEY HAMILTON: I hadn't thought about that, maybe I can stay awake until three or four
tonight and not get much sleep and be really tired tomorrow and maybe that will help out.
I'm sure my little boy will help with that situation, because he likes to stay up at
night. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT