BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2004
Jaron Brown
Jamie Dixon
Carl Krauser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH JAMIE DIXON:  Obviously, it was a very good basketball game between two very good teams.  I thought we played very well throughout, and it was a great game.  Two teams played very well.  Someone had to lose.  I'd like to congratulate the University of Connecticut on winning the championship.  I'm very proud of our guys.  I thought we played with tremendous heart and desire, as always.  I'd like to congratulate UCONN again.  We responded and did everything we wanted to do.  We just came out short.  But I was really happy with our effort in what we tried to do today.  
 
 
Q.  Julius said for a while now so long as the team is winning, his scoring is not an issue.  Are you concerned about his scoring? 
 
COACH JAMIE DIXON:  Well, I mean, any time you lose, it hurts.  You think about different things.  But, I mean, I have a lot of confidence in him the next game and next shot.  So, I mean, he's the reason why we have 29 wins and just like all of our guys, and everybody has a lot of confidence in him.  That's pretty much how we feel, as always.  
 
Q.  You mentioned you thought your team played pretty well, still kind of a shocking defeat.  A championship was lost.  Will this have an impact going into the next tournament? 
 
COACH JAMIE DIXON:  I mean, our guys, we've played a lot of tough games.  We won a lot of games.  Obviously, this was a game that just didn't turn out.  It was a back-and-forth game.  It would have been nice to have been on the winning side.  They got the loose ball at the end and got a three.  Just didn't seem like we got the loose balls at the end.  We'd block a shot, they'd get it back.  I guess those things happen.  You just hope you're in a position to get those loose balls the next time. 
 
Q.  Julius did such a great job on Gordon for so long.  Do you think he ran out of gas at the end? 
 
COACH JAMIE DIXON:  I mean, Gordon is going to  -- with the amount of shots, stuff they run for him, he's going to get his points.  We try to make it as difficult as we can, get as low a percentage as we can.  I thought Julius did a great job, our whole team defense did a good job on him.  I think it was a one-point game, they got a loose ball.  They got a couple loose balls.  Really that was the biggest thing, I thought, that they got shots  -- they missed some shots, we didn't get the rebounds and the loose balls at the end.  I'm very proud of how our guys responded.  We played great.  We knew it was going to come down to a close game, two good teams were playing.  Not a surprise it was a close game till the end.  Just didn't turn out the way we had hoped.  
 
Q.  Jaron, how bad was your ankle?  How taped up was it?  How much did it affect you? 
 
JARON BROWN:  I don't want to use it as an excuse.  If it was hurt, I wouldn't go on the court.  It was tender.  It didn't stop me from playing.  I did everything the same.  It didn't have an effect on me in the game today. 
 
Q.  Did they turn up the defense on you guys in the last four or five minutes? 
 
CARL KRAUSER:  I just think we made some mistakes.  I just credit the UCONN team for getting the loose balls and rebounding the ball well down the stretch.  
 
Q.  Carl, what were you looking for in that last drive before the ball got kicked around? 
 
CARL KRAUSER:  Just wanted to get to the basket and try to get a foul call, get to the line, you know.  We wanted to wind up as a bonus, I guess.  Get to the line to make free throws.  That didn't happen.  The ball bounced around, like you said.  Mark came up with a shot.  He missed.  
 
Q.  Can you assess your team's NCAA readiness, does it affect it at all? 
 
CARL KRAUSER:  No, it doesn't affect us.  We're just going to go back to Pittsburgh, practice, get great preparation for the game and find out where we're going to be seeded and just go out there and play hard the next game.  
 
Q.  Same thing for Jaron.  Is there any doubt in your mind you guys will bounce back from here? 
 
JARON BROWN:  Yeah, I know we will.  We took some losses before, we came back, practiced hard and won again.  That's what we plan on doing.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT