NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: RALEIGH
March 18, 2016
Malcolm Brogdon
Mike Tobey
Anthony Gill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are now going to begin the Virginia press conference.  We'll start with the student-athletes.
Q. Malcolm, I'm curious if you think one thing is more important than the other in terms of, does it help you guys more to get inside scoring or to get more of that three-point shooting that kind of got you going in the last game?  Is one or the other more important to your offense?
MALCOLM BROGDON: I think it depends on the game but most of the time it's more important to get these big guys going first, because they ultimately, at the end of the day, they touch the ball less than the guards do.  If we can get them going, If we can get their motors up, they start rebounding well and hedging well on ball screens, and they can have a way bigger impact on the game.
So really getting them going and threes will come as the game goes on.
Q. You heard what Malcolm said, is it important for you as big guys to get in a rhythm early?  Is it harder if you get touches later and then they need buckets from you?
MIKE TOBEY: Yeah, but I think it's important to establish an inside presence early into a game.  I think that really kind of helped us open up on the outside yesterday.  So I think going forward, to be able to get contributions from both inside and outside is key for us.
ANTHONY GILL: I would have to second what Malcolm said.  You know, we don't touch the ball as much as the guards do, so when we are able to get the ball earlier in the game and kind of get a rhythm going, that way it makes it a lot easier for us to feel like we're doing something in the game.
Q. For any of the players:  I believe you had some principles in the Virginia program, the names sown into your collar recently.  I just wonder if you can elaborate on what Coach Bennett emphasizes that, and if that's been a real foundational part of Virginia's program?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Absolutely.  These are the five pillars that his dad, Tony Bennett, Sr. (sic), actually came up with at Wisconsin, and, you know, it's traveled and it really does serve as the foundation of our program.  At the beginning of the year, maybe the first five practices, Coach Bennett breaks down one pillar at a time and, you know, those five pillars is really what carries through the season.  We can rely on those, we can look to those for strength and for guidance throughout the season on what we need to be better at and what we need to accomplish going forward.
Q. Anthony, is there a basketball-watching junkie on the team?  Is there, for instance, anybody on the team who knows the history of Butler and how well they've done in the past NCAA Tournaments?
ANTHONY GILL: I'm not sure if there's someone who would know exactly what Butler has done in the past, or all of the stats that they have.  A lot of guys on the team do watch basketball a lot.  Malcolm, I know he watches basketball every day.  That's just something that he does when he has free time.
But I'm not sure if anybody can actually point out one specific thing that Butler has done in the past.
Q. Malcolm, Hampton was not a really big three-point shooting team.  This team, obviously, it's one of the best things they do.  What are the keys to defending that and how much different is this game than what you just experienced?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Yeah, going into this game we know they're an excellent three-point shooting team but at the same time we're an excellent defensive team.  So the challenge is going to be making all their threes contested.  They're obviously going to knock down some these.  We just don't want them to shoot a high percentage.  We don't want the three ball to be able to carry them throughout the game.  Just make every three uncomfortable and try to challenge as many as we can.
Q. Malcolm, your matchup with Roosevelt Jones seems like it will be a pretty important one.  Who what do you kind of make of his game? He's got kind of a quirky game offensively, and what have you seen of him on video?
MALCOLM BROGDON: People say he's quirky, people say he's unorthodox, but at the end of the day he's effective.  It's about staying in front of him, making sure his crafty shots are challenged, are a little uncomfortable and that you're physical with him.  He's a physical big guard.  So you have to deliver some of that physicality back to him.  That's really the match-up for whoever is guarding him tomorrow.
Q. We know what it's like for coaches watching games in film and breaking down film study.  What do you guys do in between at the hotel?
ANTHONY GILL: Last night we got in and watched film last night on Butler once we found out -- well, actually they played before us, so we knew we were going to play them.  We watched film on them and kind of rested the rest of the night.  And this morning we woke up, got breakfast and walked through some of their actions in the hotel.  No basketball or anything like that, no basketball hoop or anything like that.  Just trying to get a feel of what they do and trying to make it a lot easier for us to go over it today in practice.
THE MODERATOR: Mike, is there anything you can add?
MIKE TOBEY: No.
Q. Butler's coach said watching film, Anthony, that you had a high motor.  We heard other coaches describe you that way, too.  Is there anything in your background that helped you about become that type of player or is it something that you always had a knack for?
ANTHONY GILL: I think one time when I was younger somebody told me I didn't have a motor at all and I didn't really understand what that meant and then they explained it to me, and ever since that day I wanted to prove them wrong and try to give the best I could every game and try to help out my team as much as I could.
So, yeah, I do pride myself on playing hard every possession and try to go out there and give the best for my team.
Q. To follow up, who was that who accused you of not having a motor?  What was the setting?  Can you tell us more about that?
ANTHONY GILL: I don't want to call anybody's name out, but it was one of my coaches growing up.  And, you know, he really meant a lot to me.  In that one day in practice, he said I didn't have a motor.  I really took it to heart and I really didn't want to be that guy who wasn't giving it all every possession.
THE MODERATOR: All right, gentlemen, you're excused.  Thank you very much and good luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT