PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 26, 2017
Jake Browning
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAKE BROWNING: ... obviously that was big just as far as I don't think we get into this game if we lose that.  So I think there's always going to be at least one or two games a year where there's just going to be, on paper, we should have won by a lot.  But it's kind of the Pac-12 plays out a lot, too; you never know who is going to be the team that gives you a fight.   
And I think if you're on paper, you're saying Wazzu is going to be the closer game, but you show up and all of a sudden Utah made some big plays and is playing well on defense and you just gotta keep battling.  Can't ever get yourself in a hole or think, all right, we're going to lose now.  Just gotta keep battling and hopefully the chips fall where they may.   
 Q.  How difficult has it been for you because of the injuries at receiver to deal with that this season?  
JAKE BROWNING: We haven't really had, other than Dante, it's been shuffling in and out.  But they've done a good job adjusting on the fly and being able to pick up more responsibility as people start getting hurt.   
And I think one of the things I like about our program is we don't really talk about injuries a lot.  We'll go play some teams and all we hear about injuries.  I don't think anybody talks about that with us.  It's just next man up.  Obviously feel bad for people who are injured, but you don't win games by feeling bad for people.  Just get ready to go, next man up.   
 Q.  Coach Petersen told us last week (inaudible).  How excited are you to get out there again and (inaudible)?  
JAKE BROWNING: Yeah, Hunter is a special play.  We all saw it throughout the season.  And especially just him being able to get these bowl practices in is big.  And he definitely adds another element to our offense.  He's a big part of it.   
 Q.  Gaskin, your relationship, is that pretty organic early on?  You remember first meeting him or is that even in recruiting?  
JAKE BROWNING: Yeah, I didn't host -- I got here early before Myles.  So I was hosting, I forget who, maybe Andre Baccellia or somebody like that.  And Myles was there, too, so I met him, then.  And we got along ever since, not necessarily the same person, but similar personalities, want to win some games and work hard doing it.  And I have zero problems with people that are willing to work hard and want to win games that aren't interested in being celebrities.   
 Q.  Penn State, when you look at the defense what do you see?  
JAKE BROWNING: You see a lot of different looks.  Very well disciplined.  Some of those teams that you see bring a lot of different pressures.  They'll mess it up on the back end, and very rarely see that with them.  And very physical obviously playing in the Big Ten and very talented.  Only giving up 15 points a game, so I think that speaks to their success more than anything, I gotta say.   
 Q.  Look at individuals on defense or pretty much look at the unit --  
JAKE BROWNING: I'll look at the DBs a little bit more.  Just I'm not really going against the linebackers as much, as far as personnel.  Really like the safety.  Comes down, plays physical.  I think both corners have played a lot of football and other safety has played a lot of football.   
I think a lot of experience.  That's why they've been able to keep up with a lot of different pressures they bring.   
 Q.  Pettis, his ability, all-around abilities, not just receiving but punt returns, what does he mean to this program?  
JAKE BROWNING: Very explosive player for us, our best receiver.  And he's able to do a lot of different things for us.  He's thrown the ball a few times.  He's caught it.  Sweeps, reverses.  Just trying to get the ball in his hands.   
 Q.  Penn State, they had two tough losses back to back weeks, maybe two or three plays, they'd be playing in the final four.  Same with you, maybe if you beat Arizona State.  How do you look at this matchup; when you got the word it was going to be down here in Arizona for the Fiesta Bowl, taking out Penn State, what did it mean to you?  
JAKE BROWNING: Penn State has been a team, and program that's been good for a lot of years and has a lot of national respect.  And I don't think we necessarily have that as far as being a little bit newer to the teams that are playing these Big Ten bowl games.  And so to be able to match up against them and against the team from the Big Ten is pretty cool for us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT